Oracle Academy and Wificombat have partnered to train over 100 students and teachers across Nigeria on how to use the Oracle Apex software to build Data Applications for sustainable development goals. Oracle Academy in partnership with Wificombat Academy, held a 3-week bootcamp called The Oracle Codeweek Nigeria 2022, to teach students and ICT teachers across the country on how to use the Oracle Apex data application software. At the start of the program, Mrs. Dele Tejuoso, founder of Wificombat academy re-introduced the Oracle Academy program to students and teachers in attendance. She also explained the benefits of schools being a member of the Oracle academy which is enjoying trainings such as the Oracle Apex Training. In addition, Mrs. Tejuoso introduced the facilitators that would be teaching the Course and they were; Mr. Kolade and the assistant facilitator Titilayo Hamzat. These two facilitators were very instrumental in the delivery of the training and students attested to the ease of onboarding with the Oracle Apex software. Last year, teachers attended the oracle Apex training solely and got exposed to the Oracle Apex software but this year, the teachers selected some students from their schools to attend the Oracle Apex training to learn how to use the software The bootcamp ran from the 12th of April to the 28th of April. It was held in three batches where students and teachers from private and public secondary schools attended. The bootcamp saw in attendance a total of 107 students who attended and 17 schools; 14 schools from Lagos, 2 schools from Ogun State and 1 school from Osun State. Of the 17 schools that attended, the schools that stood out during the program were; Whitesands School, Julliard Academy, Grange School, Supreme Education Foundation, Childville School, Halifield Schools, and Surulere Junior Secondary School. The students learnt how to use the Oracle Apex software, Understand the Oracle Apex interface, Understanding the four (4) major workspace Interfaces in Oracle APEX, use the Oracle Builder, Oracle gallery and Oracle SQL. The students were able to create various data applications such as; a football application calendar, a schedule application for Travelling and creating a file from a spreadsheet.