 Folalumi Alaran in Abuja The Minister of Water Resource, Suleiman Adamu, has said only 11 percent of Nigerian population use pipe-borne water. Adamu, who stated this at the unveiling of the 2021 Water, Sanitation, and Hygiene National Outcome Routine Mapping (WASH NORM 111) report yesterday, bemoaned the state government failure to support the federal government efforts in the areas of water, sanitation, and hygiene. According to the minister, the WASHNORM survey 2021 primarily focuses on the state of urban water utilities with local resources injection to meet specific Nigerian demands. Adamu said the survey showed “a slight increase in access to hygiene services between 2019 and 2021 as 17 percent of the population used basic hygiene services in 2021 compared to 16 percent in 2019, with notable disparities between urban (25 percent) and rural (13 percent) areas. “Ninety-nine percent of households were reported to have knowledge of at least two critical times for handwashing, an 18 percent increase from NORM 2019 reported figures of 81 percen.” Only 28 of the 36 states in Nigeria, he claimed, have municipal or state-run water utilities (SWA). Only 16 states had completely operational urban utilities or SWAs at the time of the assessment, with the remaining 12 having only partial functionality. According to Adamu, “There are an estimated 1,395 waterworks throughout Nigeria’s 36 states, including the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). He also included 17 additional waterworks that were assisted by the Federal Ministry of Water Resources, but were not included in the state returns, increasing the total number of waterworks in the country to 1,412. Also, the Statistician-General of the Federation, Adeyemi Adeniran, pointed out the low access to water, sanitation and hygiene in Nigeria. Adeniran said: “Access to WASH services in institutions and public places were generally low, with 11 percent, 6 percent, and 4 percent recorded for access to WASH in schools, health facilities, and markets/motor parks respectively. On her part, the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Water Resource, Mrs. Didi Jack, appealed for financial support to deliver on the mandate of moving the sector forward by taking advantage of the recommendation provided in the report. However, the UNICEF country representative, Mr. Peter Hawkins, said the 2021 Wash report reveals that there has been a modest gain in the proportion of people with access to basic sanitation services at 46 percent. Hawkins explained that in a country of Nigeria’s size, “this complexity is indeed a massive achievement in 2019 and 2020. Overall functionality of water facilities across the country also saw a positive change from 74 percent in 2019 to 77 percent in 2021.” The UNICEF chief also called for improvement in the political probe prioritisation, allocation and utilisation of the budget and improved infrastructure, cross sectoral integration and coordination as well as more communication platforms to improve access to safe water, better sanitation, and hygiene for the most deprived.