 Ferdinand Ekechukwu Pepsi Nigeria grabbed a large slice of the attention of golfers and guests at the National Finals of the World Corporate Golf Challenge (WCGC), which was held at the Lakowe Lakes and Golf Estate, Lagos, last weekend. Pepsi from bottling giants, Seven-Up Bottling Company (SBC), famous for its promotion of sports in Nigeria, was getting involved in the WCGC for the first time and made a big splash by spicing the occasion with a generous dose of entertainment to go along with the golfing action. The company backed the event with Storm Band, the high-profile musical live music group, which thrilled the audience with its vast repertoire of music genres that include Naija hip-hop, juju, highlife, and rhythm and blues. Similarly in action at the national finals, the instance of Pepsi was DJ Xclusive, the premium-grade disc jockey with resume boasting performances with A-Grade artists such as Ne-Yo, Rihanna, Mario Winans, Brick, Lace, Nas, and Fat Joe as well as featuring at the 2013 Big Brother House Parties. Speaking on the company’s involvement, Norden Thurston, Chief Marketing Officer, SBC, said Pepsi is committed to the promotion of sports and entertainment in Nigeria. “Our involvement in the national finals of the World Corporate Golf Challenge speaks loudly to our corporate policy of supporting sports and entertainment. We are all about refreshing Nigeria and Nigerians and we are delighted to refresh everyone at the World Corporate Golf Challenge,” Thurston said. Many of the golfers who participated in the event were full of praise for Pepsi. One of the participants, Adebiyi Fetuga, who is also Chairman of the Lagos State Golf Association, expressed delight at Pepsi’s support, saying: “Pepsi’s involvement brought a lot of glamour to this year’s edition. They were just all over the place with their very special hospitality. Very impressive” he said. Another participant and keen golfer, Jenkins Alumona of Flykite Productions, organizers of the DStv Premium Golf Day, described Pepsi’s involvement as a game-changer. “They have added a lot of glamour to the WCGC this year. The post-game entertainment was really nice” he said. The WCGC national finals had previously been held in Abuja and Uyo, the capital of Akwa Ibom State, before being held in Lagos.