 Blessing Ibunge in Port Harcourt Former representative of Rivers South-east Senatorial District at the National Assembly, Senator Magnus Abe, has expressed confidence that the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Ahmed Bola Tinubu will be the president of Nigeria come 2023. Senator Abe assured  all that the former Governor of Lagos State, Tinubu has all the needed criteria to lead the country successfully, stressing that the APC presidential candidate has impacted so much in many lives, including to nation building which he said have paved way for him. Abe stated this yesterday, during a thank- ou visit to supporters at Bera, Gokana Local Government Area of Rivers State. He recalled how he predicted the victory of Tinubu, saying that what the country needs now is a leader that will help the nation in peace and development and not those interested in looting government assets. “First, I want to congratulate the candidate of the APC, Asiwaju Ahmed Bola Tinubu. I told you people from the beginning  that Asiwaju will be the candidate of our party. “If you look carefully on the APC, if you look at the contribution from all of us, if you look at how the party got here, if you look at the history of Nigeria, you will know that there is no other person in country that can do what Jagaban of Africa can do. “I want to tell you people that the next president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria is Bola Tinubu. “I told Asiwaju face to face: I will support you because I know that you understand money. You have created wealth which Nigerians have seen. All these people carrying Ipad, making speeches up and down, all have same opportunity that Tinubu have but what he did continue to stand out not just in Nigeria but in Africa. “Nobody has been able to replicate. So, if we have a man like him in Nigeria and begin to abuse and rubbish him because people want to enter there to go and steal money, sell government assets, Nigerians are wiser, they know who can help them, they know who they will follow, Asiwaju Ahmed Bola Tinubu”. However, the former Rivers Senator congratulated Hon Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi and Tein Jack-Rich for their gallant participation as candidates at the concluded special convention of APC in Abuja. “Let me congratulate all those who have the courage, tenacity to come out and contest for the ticket of our party. They strengthened the party, they followed the rules, they did what was right and at the end of the day they respected the decision of the delegates of our party. “I particularly congratulate two of our own sons, Rt Hon Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi, who contested gallantry. I congratulate him for the spirit of sportsmanship. I congratulate him for having the courage to move forward and  I thank the party and the President for providing a level play field for everybody to compete freely and fairly. “I want to congratulate another of our sons, Tein Jack-Rich. He was also on the ballot, he contested. He may not have got any vote, a young man that has the audacity and said he want to become the president of Nigeria, I must commend him”. Abe advised Nigerians that “The battle is now over, a candidate has emerged. It is now our responsibility as Rivers people, as Nigerians to come together even across party to deliver president that can help our country.”