 Blessing Ibunge in Port Harcourt The Governorship Candidate of the Accord Party (AP) in Rivers State, Mr. Dumo Lulu-Briggs, has insisted that no gubernatorial candidate in the state could win the seat without effective campaign. The oil mogul, who spoke in Port Harcourt yesterday during interaction with representatives of the business community and professional bodies in the state, stated that to become the next governor of Rivers a candidate must be talking in order to get things right. Lulu-Briggs stressed that the success of previous administrations in the 1990s was because the leaders engaged the people and related their programmes and policies. Lulu-Briggs said: “The governor must be an engaging governor. He will engage with Rivers indigenes for them to know where they are and their feelings. Programmes of government will be communicated to the people. Transparency shall be the watchword. “If the people understand that truly you are working for them, then they will understand that there is a time that you must use to grow certain things that you need to see happen. “All of their desires will not happen overnight, but they need to know that you are truly working to ensure that their lives are better. It is important that there is no misunderstanding between the public and the public servant. “What you are doing as a public servant must be understood by the public. Because of where we are today a lot of talking has to take place, you need to build people’s confidence in government again.” “I used the dinner to also speak to the business community of Rivers State and find out from them the level of collaboration they would want in the next administration and how to develop ideas into policies that will help transform Rivers State. “There are innumerable opportunities that abound here in Rivers State. All we need to do is to harness all of that, come with policies that will expand the economy that will accommodate all of us, build our institutions and strengthen them so that they can hold all our aspirations and that Rivers State of our dream will begin to happen. “Whatever they have there in Lagos we have here and even more. Why we have not being able to excel is that we have become hateful of ourselves. We are not cooperating. We are not using the best amongst us. But we have decided that this time we are going to have paradigm shift. “We are going to ensure that we use the best to grow the rest of us. For us to achieve this we must all come together and understand ourselves,” Lulu-Briggs added.