 Michael Olugbode in Abuja The coalition of Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) under the aegis of Civil Society Group for Good Governance (CSGGG) have tasked the newly appointed acting Accountant General of the Federation (AGF), Mr. Anamekwe Nwabuoku, to fight corruption within the system by conducting his duties with the highest level of transparency and accountability. This advice was contained in a signed letter addressed to the acting AGF by the President of CSGGG, Mr. Ogakwu Dominic, copy of which was also made available to journalists in Abuja. Dominic, while noting that the appointment of Nwabuoku is well deserved as it was done based on qualifications and track records of his success, said: “By virtue of being the most senior director in the Office of the Accountant General of Federation, this appointment is well deserved as a square peg was put in a square hole. “In addition, the appointment came at a critical time where capable hands like your humble self with much needed skills and expertise are needed to use their knowledge to turn around and rejuvenate the country’s financial and economic sector. “And we believed that your antecedents at the various places where you worked earlier will speak volume of what you can accomplish now that you are entrusted with this present national assignment.” Dominic also assured Anamekwe of the unwavering support of all the CSOs under the CSGGG in order for him to have a smooth tenure in office while at the same time achieve his designated goals and objectives. He said: “In light of the foregoing, the group has since embarked on a media awareness campaign in order to sensitise the minds of citizens on the statutory roles and mandates of the Office of the Accountant General of Federation. “Additionally, among other things, the campaign is also aimed at drawing the attention of the new overseer of the OAGF on the volatile issues around the financial sector which Nigerians will keenly observe and equally look up to you to proffer everlasting solutions. “These issues included but not limited to; lingering strikes by the members of Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) with the payment platform, i.e. Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System (IPPIS) that is being managed by the OAGF as one of the major reasons behind the persistent industrial actions. “Similarly, looking at the circumstances that warranted your appointment, it is expected that you run the affairs of the office with the highest level of accountability and transparency so as not to allow any window for corruption and or any kind of fund misappropriations.”