  Blessing Ibunge in Port Harcourt The Chief of Defence Staff, Gen. Lucky Irabor, has assured the Nigerian Navy that the federal government has begun efforts to recapitalise her fleets for improved performance. Irabor stated this at the Sunset Ceremony marking the end of the 2022 Navy Week and 66th anniversary of the Nigerian Navy held at Onne, Rivers State. He noted the importance of the Nigerian Navy in securing the vast strategic resources and opportunities in Nigeria’s maritime domain. Irabor stressed that the Nigerian Navy had proven to be a tireless and vigilant custodian of the country’s maritime environment, adding that given the dependence on oil revenues, the Nigerian Navy was indisputably a critical contributor to the mainstay of the nation’s economy. He urged men and officers of the Nigerian Navy not to relent, but to redouble their efforts, in order to build a Navy that all Nigerians will be proud of. “Accordingly, this mutual investment will encourage the Navy in order to secure the nation’s prosperity within the context of the prevailing national government efforts to revamp and reposition our economy for the well-being of Nigerians. “I dare say, that as a service which Nigeria expects so much from, your only rational choice is to diligently sustain the achievements recorded as well as ongoing efforts despite deficiencies in equipment. “As much as there is need to acquire more platforms and equipment for your use, it is equally important to acknowledge what the government has done, I will also implore you to make good use of the ones which the government has recently acquired, as well as training to ensure proficiency in the usage of these platforms is achieved. “I must also assure the Nigerian Navy that the federal government is working assiduously to ensure that your past operational handicaps concerning insufficient equipment becomes a thing of the past very soon, just as I have just alluded to. This is also recalling the fleet recapitalisation efforts as well as other supports.” The CDS also commended the efforts of the Nigerian Navy. “On this note I must commend the untiring efforts of the Nigerian Navy and indeed members of the armed forces in general, which has seen to the reduction of crude oil theft, violent crimes and other illegalities in the nation’s maritime domain. It is gratifying to equally note the zeal to the internal security duties on the hinterland and the nation’s adjoining waterways. “The doggedness of officers and men of the Nigerian Navy in synergy with other security agencies have significantly contributed to instilling peace and tranquillity in most riverine and coastal communities.” Earlier, the Chief of Naval Staff, Vice Admiral Awwal Gambo, assured that the Nigerian Navy will not rest on its oars in defending the nation’s territorial integrity from the sea. “As democracy continues to flourish in our country, Nigerians are beginning to ask for not only accountability and transparency but performance from a very important arm of service like ours. Consequently the service cannot be found wanting in our core business to the nation and our region, the Gulf of Guinea. “I’ll take this opportunity to assure all that we will continue to put in place an enabling environment for economic and industrial activities to thrive. To this end, increased attention is being given to training to keep us abreast with modern trends in warfare.”