 Sadio Mane has completed the first part of his Bayern Munich medical in Germany after jetting in from Majorca on Tuesday as the forward edges closer to a move to the Bundesliga giants. Liverpool agreed a £35.1million deal with the German club for the 30-year-old last week and he touched down at Munich Airport yesterday morning. The star forward arrived in Bavaria on a private jet from Majorca with his advisor Bjorn Bezemer and then went on to Barmherzige Bruder hospital to undergo his medical. Later on, Mane emerged from the medical facility wearing Bayern Munich training gear and posed for pictures with fans outside. The star forward is expected to be unveiled by the Bundesliga champions today at the Allianz Arena. The Reds had been reluctant to lose their star forward this summer, but a move became almost inevitable when the Senegalese international, who is in the final year of his contract, confirmed his desire to quit Anfield. Having already rejected two offers including what were considered unrealistic bonuses, Liverpool finally agreed a fee of £27.4m with an additional £5.1m based on appearances and £2.6m based on individual and team achievements. Bayern’s Sporting Director, Hasan Salihamidzic, led negotiations well aware that Mane was committed to joining the German champions and determined to get a deal done for under Liverpool’s £42.5m asking price. Mane’s Anfield exit sees Liverpool close edger to an end of an era as he is the first of Jurgen Klopp’s original famed front three to leave the club. Alongside Mohamed Salah and Roberto Firmino, Mane helped the Reds win their sixth Champions League and end their 30-year wait for a Premier League title. He joined Liverpool for £31m plus £2.5m in add-ons from Southampton in 2016 and quickly became an integral part of Klopp’s revolution on Merseyside. Across his six-year spell at the club, the Senegalese international scored 120 goals in 269 appearances in all competitions. He has enjoyed an exceptional year so far, winning the Africa Cup of Nations with Senegal before helping Liverpool win the Carabao Cup and FA Cup and finish runners-up in the Premier League and Champions League. While Mane is heading for the exit, Liverpool have already secured his replacement, signing Darwin Nunez from Benfica for a potential club record of £85m. The Reds have also secured the signings of Fabio Carvalho and Calvin Ramsay as they wrap up their summer business.