 Michael Olugbode in Abuja Rwanda has promised to host a high-level global gathering during the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting (CHOGM) in Kigali later this month. Addressing fellow diplomats from Commonwealth nations at the Pre-CHOGM 22 Networking Cocktail Event held in Abuja at the weekend, the High Commissioner of Rwanda to Nigeria, Satnislas Kamanzi said: “The time has come now and Rwanda and her People are poised to host one of the most high-level global gatherings, the eminent leaders and their delegations would be in attendance. Everything has been carefully set up to ensure a memorable stay and a conducive environment for smooth and successful deliberations.” He added: “Countdown has started as we are now less than two weeks before the Commonwealth Nations rally in Kigali-Rwanda for CHOGM 22. Needless to remind us that Rwanda had been ready to host this high-profile global event a bit more than two years ago, if it hadn’t been for the unfortunate surge of the COVID-19 pandemic and its ensuing destructive footprint.” The envoy said the meeting with the theme: “Delivering a Common Future: Connecting, Innovating, Transforming,”would serve as a wide platform to debate and make game changing decisions on issues of common interest clustered in sub themes including: governance and rule of law; sustainability along the nexus between economy and the environment; health; technology and innovation; and youth. He disclosed that four forums had been scheduled to hold as follows: The Youth Forum from 19th to 21st June, Women’s Forum from 20th to 21st June, People’s Forum from 21st to 22nd June, and the Commonwealth Business Forum from 21st to 23rd June. He equally disclosed that the official opening ceremony had been scheduled for June 24, adding that there would be a Heads of Government Retreat on June 25th. He promised that: “Our country will endeavour to take the lead in the necessary engagements to deepen the reflections from CHOGM22, and to implement agreed upon decisions with a particular focus on harnessing quick wins in the areas of Climate Change, Global Health and Trade inside the Commonwealth and beyond. “Rwanda is with least doubt that our shared values will keep guiding us as we work collaboratively to make significant strides in the socio-economic transformation beneficial to the Commonwealth community.”Also speaking at the occasion, the United Kingdom’s High Commissioner to Nigeria, Catriona Laing said the UK had been the Commonwealth Chair since 2018 “After a two-year delay, we will hand over the Chair to Rwanda in a few weeks’ time. As Chair, the UK has worked with our Commonwealth partners to champion human rights, boost intra-Commonwealth trade and support climate action, particularly in the most vulnerable member states. “We look forward to working with Rwanda as the incoming Chair in Office and the rest of the Commonwealth family to maintain momentum on these priorities.”