 Sunday Aborisade in AbujaThe Senator representing Kogi West Senatorial District, Smart Adeyemi, has rejected the outcome of the recently conducted All Progressives Congress (APC) National Assembly primary in his constituency. In the election, which was held in Kabba, headquarters of the Senatorial District, Adeyemi lost to a member of the House of Representatives, Sunday Karimi, who was announced as the candidate. Adeyemi, who addressed journalists in Abuja Thursday, however said he had petitioned the National Chairman of the APC, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, to draw the party’s leadership to the alleged anomaly that happened during the poll. The senator said his ordeal started when he refused to comply with the advice of the governor of the state, Yahaya Bello, that he should withdraw from the race.He explained that Bello promised to make him the chief of staff when he wins the presidential election. He said the governor also asked him to hold a meeting with the Chairman of the APC in the state, Abdullahi Bello, but that the parley ended in a deadlock.He said: “I had a closed-door meeting with the APC chairman of my state at the instance of my state Governor, Yahaya Adoza Bello. “The party chairman suggested that I do not contest the elections, but rather join hands with them for the realisation of Project Governor Yahaya Bello to President Yahaya Bello. “It is to the knowledge of my constituents and Nigerians at large that I have remained committed to this project and have not for once minced words about it. “However, the condition for my stepping aside was to take on a position which was technocratic in nature when my governor eventually emerges as president, and this did not align with my personal goals and aspirations as a journalist and a crusader for the common man. “I immediately informed Abdullahi Bello unambiguously that my training as a journalist will not permit me to aspire to the role and as such, there was the need to fine-tune things to accommodate everyone. “The meeting ended inconclusively, and thereafter, events metamorphosed into threats that I must not contest in the primary election. “After due considerations and deliberations with my senior friends, constituents, and my counterparts who are integral members of our great party, | heeded their call, summoned courage and participated in the elections nonetheless. “Let me state unequivocally and without ambiguity, that the elections which took place on the 22th of May, 2022 in Kogi State were neither free nor fair.” He said it is on record that the list of delegates was changed 24 hours to the elections proper, adding that individuals who are not from Kogi West were brought in to vote under extremely hostile environment with militants, armed men and unidentified thugs in their numbers. Adeyemi said this was apart from authorised security agents who were present to observe the event and ensure law and order. He stated that what is crucial is the fact that the returning officer, Bashir Gegu, had once aspired to run for the same office, and is a sitting commissioner in Kogi State. “As soon as he was announced as the returning officer, my ward wrote a formal letter to protest his nomination as it would have been impossible for him to be fair and just. “On the day of the election, he personally compelled people to vote his own choice, with most of the commissioners present in the voting hall. “Delegates were further made to comply with orders by saying they were unable to write and therefore a designated person commenced voting on their behalf,” he said.According to Adeyemi, it was only an insignificant few who had the courage to vote their respective choices, regardless of the gross and palpable intimidation. He said those present would attest to the fact that he departed the venue as quickly as he observed what was going on, and even before counting of the adulterated votes commenced. The senator said he had filled a formal petition at the APC secretariat giving full account of the events that took place. He said: “This, we have done, for record purposes and for posterity. The accusation that I have stepped on toes by my position on contemporary national issues constitutes a major part of my many offences, and I have absolutely no regrets on the matter. “If the hands of times are turned, I will stand in the same position, speak my mind, the minds of the common man on the streets and project only those values which I believe in. My antecedents speak for me. “I disagree in its entirety, the outcome of the just concluded primary elections in my state.” Adeyemi said that it was a complete rape of democracy, a daylight robbery and an extremely manipulated exercise, adding that all his observation have been deposited at the appropriate quarters. He stated that if he does not get justice from the party, he would get justice from God.