 Ebere Nwoji Anchor Insurance has made provision for air passengers’ legal liabilities need through the launch of a retail travel insurance package tagged local passengers’ flight welfare scheme. The policy provides compensation for losses encountered by passengers including baggage delay, mishandled baggage and loss of baggage during air trips. It is also meant to provide financial benefits for the harm done to the health and life of the insured person or to compensate for lost wages during temporary or permanent disability as a result of unexpected and short-term external factors or unforeseen circumstances in form of accidents. The Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of Anchor Insurance, Augustine Ebose, speaking at the media launch of the policy in Lagos said the product has been approved by the insurance sector regulator National Insurance Commission (NAICOM). He said Anchor Insurance was particularly glad when it received the approval as it provided a further opportunity for the company to bring its well-known customer-centric finesse to bear in driving the product to real success and for the maximum benefits of its potential customers. He said having been approved by the regulator, the protection provided by the policy to air passengers would be run according to regulator’s stipulations. “This insurance protection will be run in accordance with the stipulated regulations on obligatory personal accidents insurance on transport. “According to the current regulations, passengers are considered insured from the moment of processing the check-in to the period of unboarding and receipt of luggage(s). The policy terminates from the point the passenger collects or takes his/her luggage at the arrival hall.  For emphasis, the policy covers the passenger from his/her airport of takeoff to the airport of destination within the Nigerian geographical space, ”he said. He said for about 32 years, Anchor Insurance has been in operation and has been remarkable for excellent delivery of services to its customers, assuring that the company would not do anything less with the new product. According to him, the policy, terminates from the point the passenger collects or takes his/her luggage at the arrival hall, adding that for emphasis, the policy covers the passenger from his/her airport of takeoff to the airport of destination within the Nigerian geographical space. Speaking, the Chief Executive Officer, Fidelity Brokers Limited, Alfred Daudu, said Anchor Insurance was a very reliable company, adding that was why his broking firm was proud to do business with it. “When we say a company is reliable, it means it has the willingness and ability to pay claims,” he submitted. Daudu stated that his firm has never had any difficulty with Anchor in settling claims, stressing that he was proud to recommend Anchor Insurance to his clients.