 Deji Elumoye, Chuks Okocha, Udora Orizu  in Abuja, George Okoh in Makurdi, David-Chyddy Eleke in Awka, Segun Awofadeji in Gombe, James Sowole in Abeokuta, Adibe Emenyonu in Benin City, Fidelis David in Akure and Oluchi Chibuzor Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo, has charged Nigerians to embrace democracy with a view to strengthening national unity and building social cohesion. Osinbajo, who spoke yesterday at the Church Service to mark this year’s Democracy Day, in Abuja, declared that, “democracy works because the values of justice, equality, fairness and inclusion, which underpin democratic governance, are also at the heart of our Christian faith” According to him, “Democracy works, all the more so in a heterogeneous union like ours, through negotiations and compromises carried out in good faith. And each year brings us closer to a more perfect union, a more mature democracy. The Vice President, who was represented by the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, said, the commemoration provided “opportunity to reflect on how far we have come as a people. It invites sobriety and gratitude.“It allows us to remember the decades characterised by a lack of freedom, suspicion and uncertainty, and calls to mind the prayers, faith and courageous actions that brought us to a turning point in 1999, one accompanied by hope and promise.” Quoting copiously from the Holy Bible, the vice-president recalled how in Deuteronomy Chapter 16, “God commanded the people through Moses to “Observe the month of Abib, and keep the Passover to the LORD your God, for in the month of Abib the LORD your God brought you out of Egypt by night.” “In Esther 9:20-22, following the great deliverance of the Jews from the devious plots of Haman, it says: ‘Mordecai recorded these events, and he sent letters to all the Jews throughout the provinces of King Xerxes, near and far, to have them celebrate annually the fourteenth and fifteenth days of the month of Adar as the time when the Jews got relief from their enemies, and as the month when their sorrow was turned into joy and their mourning into a day of celebration. “And so in celebrating our Democracy Day, in-line with biblical and historical traditions, we assure ourselves that the hands of God are never too short to deliver and that His grace will always prevail for our good. Equally important, is that we also assure ourselves, that no matter how challenging the situation or moment might be, there is always enough God-given strength within us, as a people, to surmount them”. Ortom Urges Nigerians to Rise against Anti-democratic Forces Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom has urged Nigerians to be on the alert against anti-democratic forces, saying, “We must guard our democracy jealously.” According to him, “By deliberate efforts and design, Nigerians opted for the presidential system of democracy, because it is participatory and representative enough. It is a way of life that must be held sacrosanct.”In his goodwill message to Nigerians to commemorate the June 12 struggle, Ortom recalled the tortuous journey to democratic rule and urged Nigerians to rise up to say, “Never again shall we allow undemocratic forces take control of our collective destiny.” The governor, however, advocated the need to strengthen democratic institutions in the country “so that the practice of democracy should not be at the dictates or the whims and caprices of a few individuals, who think they will lord it over the general public but the wishes of the people.” Yahaya Tasks Citizens on Active Participation in Electoral Process,  Governance Gombe State Governor, Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya, has  enjoined the people of the state to continue to play their role in deepening democracy by actively participating in the electoral process, which he noted has improved over the years. In a goodwill message, to mark the June 12 Democracy Day, which was issued by the Director-General  (Press Affairs), Government House, Ismaila Uba Misilli, the governor noted that democracy has come to stay in the country, and called on the people of the state to get involved and remain steadfast as major stakeholders in the process of governance. He also noted with delight the successful conduct of party congresses and primaries, calling on the people of the state to exhibit same maturity as the 2023 electioneering begins soon.While urging the citizenry to take advantage of the opportunity of the continuous voters’ registration, especially, those just attaining voting age or those that had not registered previously, to obtain their PVCs, he said it would make them to be eligible to exercise their rights and contribute to nation-building. Diri: Leaders Must Be Servants Bayelsa State Governor, Senator Douye Diri, has said the essence of democracy would be lost if leaders failed to be servants to the people.Diri made the remark yesterday while speaking at a non-denominational Democracy Day service at the King of Glory Chapel, Government House, Yenagoa. The governor charged those occupying elective and appointive offices to see themselves as servants while the people that gave them the mandate as their masters to whom they were accountable.A press release by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Daniel Alabrah, quoted the governor as saying that elected or appointed officials should regard such positions of authority as a privilege and a platform to better the lot of the people. “Today being Democracy Day, we should all be reminded to continue to give service to our people. If you have been elected or appointed into key government offices and positions, you should note that It is only but a privilege.“In all our actions, we should know that those who have given us the mandate to serve them are our masters and we are their servants. If you make yourselves a demi-god, you are only deceiving yourselves,” he said. Soludo: Democracy is Struggle for Better Society Governor of Anambra State, Prof. Chukwuma Soludo, has described democracy as a continuous struggle for better society.Soludo, who spoke during a special mass at the Anambra Governor’s Lodge in Amawbia, in celebration of Democracy Day, stated that it was not only so in Nigeria, but all over the world, as democracy was the only form of government that could guarantee a better society. Soludo said: “Nation building is a consequence of struggle for class, both social and otherwise, and values such as focus, determination and perseverance are indispensable in this kind of struggle. There is no perfect society anywhere in the world, however, contestations and contradictions bring out the best in the society. “Today, as Nigeria celebrates Democracy Day, the sacrifices by the late MKO Abiola and others, in the course of the struggle that gave rise to the Democracy Day celebration will not be taken for granted.”The governor said for Anambra, democracy would remain a struggle to build a livable and prosperous homeland, where every one would feel safe in, noting that everybody had very fundamental role to play in bringing it to fruition. Zulum: Defying Boko Haram for 13 Years Makes Northeast Hero of 23-Year Democracy People of the northeast, particularly, those in Borno State, have spent more than half of Nigeria’s 23 years of uninterrupted democracy, showing “incredible resilience” against vicious attempts by Boko Haram insurgents to undermine democratic institutions, Governor Babagana Umara Zulum said yesterday. Zulum, who is Chairman of the Northeast Governors’ Forum, conveyed these in his Democracy Day message, made public by his spokesman, Malam Isa Gusau, where he described the people of Borno State and rest of the northeast as deserving of being amongst heroes of Nigeria’s 23 years of sustained democracy.“It is now 23 uninterrupted years since Nigeria returned to democratic rule back in 1999. In those 23 years, societies across the country have witnessed different levels of progress and challenges. “In those 23 years, the people of Borno State and other parts of the northeast, have since July 2009, ceaselessly resisted groups of extremely violent insurgents with the determination to wreck massive havoc on communities, pursuing the ultimate objective of bringing down democratic institutions in Nigeria, and replacing them with violent sovereign doctrines. “In these 13 years, countless number of these citizens as members of ‘Civilian JTF, hunters and vigilantes, have made sacrifices including giving their lives at battle fronts, to protect fellow citizens and to preserve our nation’s sovereignty and democracy. These fallen volunteers alongside those currently in front lines and all citizens of the northeast eminently qualify to be named amongst the heroes of Nigeria’s 23 years of uninterrupted democracy.” Owie: Those Who Annulled June 12 Election Acted in Bad Fate Former Senate Chief Whip, Senator Roland Owie, has said members of the Military Council, that ordered the annulment of June 12, 1993 Presidential election, were under the control of evil spirit.Owie, who made the declaration in a statement yesterday, in Benin City, Edo State, stated that, “The annulment was to tell the world that those who are evil won’t go unpunished. Whatever we sow, we will reap. Therefore, celebrating June 12, is the celebration of ‘retributive justice’. “Beloved, whatever we do in this world we should always remember that there is God! There is Heaven!! There is Hell!!! June 12 Election was a retributive event on the wicked, for The word of God says: “Evil shall slay the wicked: And they that hate the righteous shall be desolate” (Ps.34.v.21).” He added that June 12, 1993, was an event with which The Almighty God showed that all powers belonged to Him. “That event showed that God heard the prayers of our great leaders, amongst whom are, late Chief Obafemi Awolowo, Alhaji Shehu Shagari, Alhaji Adamu Ciroma, Gen. Shehu Musa Yaradua, and millions of Nigerians, who were betrayed at various times by the principal actors and their collaborators, who were to be the major beneficiaries of the success of that election of JUNE.12″. Abiodun Reverses Death Sentence on Six Convicts, Frees 40 Inmates As part of activities commemorating the 2023 Democracy Day, Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has approved the committal of six convicts on death row to life imprisonment and also released 40 inmates.The governor made the pronouncement yesterday while speaking at the June 12 Commemorative Anniversary and Nigeria’s Democracy Day, held at the M.K.O International Stadium, Abeokuta, Ogun State capital. He explained that the committal to life imprisonment and release of the convicted inmates was in accordance with the provisions of Sections 212 (1) and (2) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999, (as amended) and Sections 4 and 5 of the Ogun State Advisory Council on Prerogative of Mercy (Establishment Law), Laws of Ogun State 2006. Abiodun, who called on Nigerians to draw strength from the 1993 general election and make the 2023 exercise even better, equally advocated stringent punishment for violators of due process in elections, declaring that people’s ballots must count and be respected in 2023. The governor noted that the struggles of June 12 as orchestrated by late MKO Abiola, gave birth to the seamless democracy Nigeria has enjoyed in the last 23 years, emphasising that “only by upholding the tenets of democracy and ensuring its sustainability that we can truly honour the memory of those ideals that Chief MKO Abiola and others stood and died for.” Sanwo-Olu: We Must Join Hands to Build the Future We Want Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has said the commemoration of another June 12 occasion must come with a deep reflection of the progress recorded so far in the nation’s democratic experiment, while joining efforts to correct the imperfections yet to be addressed to make the system of government worthwhile. The governor, in a statement to mark Democracy Day yesterday, said June 12 remained a rallying symbol around which Nigerians’ aspirations for unity, hope, better condition of living and true democratic practices were built, including the hope of creating a better country.Sanwo-Olu said such hopes must be rekindled by the sacrifices made by past political actors that laid down their lives, especially, the late Chief Moshood Abiola, who paid supreme price. “The challenge before all of us today, as Lagosians and Nigerians, is that June 12 must become a symbol of unity, of hope, of aspiration for a better tomorrow, one built upon true democratic ideals and practices. The Democracy Day must be a reminder of the importance of joining hands to build the future we want. Twenty-nine years ago on this day, Nigerians trooped enthusiastically to the polls, defying stereotypes of ethnicity and religion to prove to ourselves and the world that a new Nigeria is possible. “Regrettably, the powers-that-be at the time truncated that dream. But it was merely a delay, not a denial. We have since been blessed with a new opportunity to build on the hope and the potential of June 12, 1993. That responsibility is now in our hands, and posterity will not forgive us if we squander it. We have seen our democracy at work. It is not perfect, but no democracy is. There are still gaps to be closed, and processes to be improved upon, but there is no doubt that the journey we started over two decades ago is fully on course and maturing.”Get Your PVCs, Saraki Tells Nigerians Former President of the Senate, Dr. Abubakar Bukola Saraki, has called on Nigerians across the nation to get their Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs) ahead of the 2023 general election.In a statement by his Media Office in Abuja in commemoration of Democracy Day, Saraki, acknowledged the sacrifice of Nigeria’s past heroes, who have contributed to the development of the nation’s democracy, and called on all Nigerians of voting age to ensure that they exercise their civic duty by voting next year. “As families across Nigeria settle in to commemorate the significance of #DemocracyDay, we all must remember the immeasurable sacrifice of our heroes, as well as celebrate the courage, and persistence of all Nigerians.“This is because, throughout this oft-imperfect journey to institutionalise stronger democratic values in all aspects of our lives, there have been hiccups, yet, Nigerians have always demonstrated an unwavering commitment to forge a better, stronger, safer, and more prosperous nation. “In this regard, as we observe today, remembering that the 2023 general election is just around the corner, I ask all Nigerians of voting age to ensure that they have their PVCs to exercise their civic responsibility by participating in the election of our leaders at the state and federal levels.” Akeredolu: Democratic Values Must be Deepened, Canvasses Restructuring Ondo State Governor, Mr Oluwarotimi Akeredolu (SAN), has identified restructuring as the only panacea for the array of challenges confronting the nation, particularly, insecurity.The governor, in his June 12 message yesterday by his Chief Press Secretary, Richard Olatunde, said it was time to deepen the democratic values that the Democracy Day represented. “Although we are still mourning, we will not forget to join our voices to address the fundamental issues that have remained a clog in the wheel of the country’s progress. This day represents a watershed in the history of democracy in our country. It also symbolises a total rebirth of hope and aspiration. It reinforces not just an enduring hope, but resilience in the face of daunting challenges.“Today, we must make efforts to ensure that the reason for this day is not defeated. Our focus must shift primarily to the people. We must identify the challenges confronting the nation and be prepared to tackle them for the overall benefit of Nigerians. “No doubt, our country is going through hard times. The issue of insecurity requires our collective efforts. We must renew our commitment to the protection of lives and property. Our country must explore all angles aimed at securing our space against these divisive elements bent on setting the country on the path of conflagration,” Akeredolu said. House Minority Caucus Tasks Buhari on Credible Polls in 2023 The Minority Caucus in the House of Representatives, has called on President Muhammadu Buhari to take very firm steps to put in place all necessary arrangements that will guarantee free, fair, credible and transparent general election in 2023. The caucus, in a statement by its leader, Hon. Ndudi Elumelu, extolled the courage, selflessness and patriotism of Chief MKO Abiola, who made immense sacrifices and paid the supreme price for the entrenchment of democracy in the country. They stressed that the federal government must use the occasion of the June 12 Democracy Day to commit to processes that would check electoral manipulations, guarantee the security of voters and ensure that only votes cast by Nigerians in their respective polling units counted at the end of the elections.The lawmakers also urged leaders at all levels to uphold this legacy by carrying out their responsibilities in line with the demands of justice, equity, fairness and adherence to rules. Don’t Despair, APC Will Soon Be History, PDP Urges Nigerians The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), yesterday, urged Nigerians to use the occasion of the June 12 Democracy Day to reaffirm their determination to vote out the anti-democratic, inhumane, lawless and rudderless All Progressives Congress (APC) in the 2023 general election. The party also called on President Muhammadu Buhari to go beyond his usual rhetoric and take practical steps to guarantee the conduct of free, fair and transparent elections in 2023. The PDP, in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Debo Ologunagba, reminded President Buhari that Nigerians were more than ever before, determined to fully entrench the democratic demands of credible elections, which was at the core of the Democracy Day celebration. “June 12 embodies the struggle by Nigerians against corrupt, suppressive and dictatorial forces, against lawless, insensitive, anti-people and terrorism-promoting regime, against injustice, high-handedness, recklessness and incurable impunity, all which the APC has come to represent. “It is unpardonable that the APC administration has arrogantly continued to violate and trample on the substance, value and quintessence of June 12 Democracy Day; the democratic principles of Constitutional Order, freedom, justice, fairness and equity as well as the much-desired national cohesion and tolerance which Chief MKO Abiola personified and died for.” The opposition party therefore called on  the APC to stop testing the will of Nigerians with its continued abuse of process, violation of human rights, nepotism, electoral manipulations, stifling of freedom of speech, promotion of violence; the very pattern of the dark era of military dictatorship in our country, which Chief MKO Abiola fought against. Uzodimma: June 12 Resonates Our Collective Struggle, Resilience to Enthrone Democracy Imo State Governor, Hope Uzodimma, has congratulated Nigerians for keeping faith with democracy with June 12, noting that the day resonated the collective struggle and resilience of the people to enthrone and sustain democracy.In his goodwill message, yesterday, he said one of the major takeaways about the Day is that the will of the people in a democracy was supreme and could not be underestimated. He said the fact that Nigeria had experienced 23 years of uninterrupted civil rule spoke to the collective desire of the people to sustain democracy and congratulated them for the sacrifices they made to enthrone democracy.He, however, challenged Nigerians to search their consciences whether, by their behaviour, they have truly internalised the spirit of June 12, even as he reiterated his resolve to sincerely serve the people of Imo State by providing services that would enhance their wellbeing, using his 3-R mantra of rehabilitation, reconstruction and recovery. Group Tasks Religious Leaders to Egg-on Members to Collect PVCsThe Pray Nigeria Movement (PNM), has called on religious leaders across the country to encourage their members to go and collect their Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs). But as the race to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari gathers momentum, it spoke of the need for Nigerians to seek spiritual insight as to who becomes the next President at the forthcoming general election. Speaking at a press conference in Lagos, recently, PNM convener, Prophet Isaiah Wealth, said Nigerians must pray for their country always, adding that, their forthcoming June 12 Fast programme, was a  vision for the movement to pray for the emergence of a good leader that would usher the country into a new dawn. “The Pray Nigeria Movement is not a political organisation, and it has no political motivation or affiliation. PNM was born out of the passion to bring Nigeria to its destiny apart from political means.”