 After a disappointing second round ouster at the 2021 African Cup of Nations in Cameroon and failing to qualify for 2022 FIFA World Cup slated for Qatar, Nigeria’s senior football team-Super Eagles of Nigeria on Thursday began another AFCON qualifier game, which is their first competitive match under new manager-Jose Santos Peseiro. Kunle Adewale asks if it would not be another heartbreaking time for soccer loving Nigerians The Super Eagles are campaigning in relatively easy Group A, which comprises their Thursday opponent, Sierra Leone, Sao Tome and Guinea-Bissau. Against the Leone Stars in an empty Moshood Abiola Stadium, Abuja on Thursday, the Eagles were far from impressive but only managed to overcome an early scare but were lucky to overcome a more organised Sierra Leone by 2-1 to pocket the three points at stake, thanks to goals from Everton’s Alex Iwobi and Napoli’s Victor Oshimen in a stunning first-half comeback. The victory marked the first competitive game for the new Super Eagles manager. After two friendly game losses to Mexico and Ecuador, going one goal behind against Sierra Leone had raised some concerns about Peseiro’s team. However, considering the gulf in quality between both sides, one would have expected the Lone Star to get a proper mauling. But it was not the case as the Sierra Leoneans went about their duties majorly unabated. Nigeria could have scored more than two, but the continuous issue of profligacy in front of goal reared its ugly head again as Nigeria missed several opportunities. Speaking after the game, Peseiro shared his elation with the victory, but he agreed that the West-African giants were not at their best. “We are better than Sierra Leone in this game”, Peseiro said. “We deserve the win. We changed the setup in the second half, I think it was only in the last 10 minutes that our opponents had some good spaces. “We created a lot of scoring chances, we could have won with a bigger margin, but the team needs more time and we must work. The Super Eagles would look to be at their best when they lock horns with Sao Tome and Principe in the second round of games. The Pereiro side will on Monday play their second group match against the Falcons and True Patriots of Sao Tome and Principe in an encounter Nigeria is highly favoured to cart away the three points at stake. The Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Sunday Dare, recently charged the new Head Coach of the Super Eagles to make the squad a blend of the very best professional players based at home and abroad, hinting  that the Ministry will assist in the rebuilding process by providing a conducive environment for the Portuguese to restore the confidence of football-loving Nigerians and the government in the Super Eagles. Dare told the gaffer that Nigerians want their national teams to win every game, even though this is an impossibility in sport. “Whenever the team does not win, it must be seen to have demonstrated high-level commitment, consistency and discipline on and off the pitch. “To be able to appreciate the deep love of our people for the game and why they want their team to win all the time, you have to live in our country, enjoy our food, our weather, our hospitality. I want to let you know that the process that produced you was governed by diligence, commitment and spirit of teamwork, and indeed very thorough. I believe that you will use this opportunity to make a mark by leading the Super Eagles to new heights.” The Minister charged Peseiro to deliver a win for the Super Eagles against the Leone Stars of Sierra Leone in Abuja on Thursday. Peseiro in return said he was fully committed to the objective of winning the Africa Cup of Nations in Cote d’Ivoire next year summer. “I have always loved the Nigeria team, ever since I watched them play at the 1994 FIFA World Cup in the United States. It is a team with a solid pedigree. Presently, we have both quality and quantity of players and it is always a good situation for any team.” Whether the Portuguese would be able to take the Super Eagles to a new height remains to be seen.