 Olawale Ajimotokan The federal government has flagged off the pilot phase of the Federal Civil Service Bus Scheme. The Head of Service of the Federation, Dr. Folasade Yemi-Esan yesterday inaugurated the bus service in Abuja. The pilot phase will take off with 20 high-capacity buses that will be deployed to cover four major routes within the FCT. The routes are Kubwa, Nyanya, Airport Road and Gwagwalada. According to her, although the phase of the scheme is starting on a small scale it is expected that coverage would be expanded to access more routes. She noted the assurance is premised on the expectation that more private sector operators will key into the scheme for the benefit of greater number of civil servants within the FCT and its outskirts. She said the service is aimed at providing efficient transportation system for workers living within the FCT and its outskirts. Yemi-Esan stressed the overarching goal of the scheme is to increase the disposable incomes of civil servants within the FCT, by reducing the cost of transportation to and from their workplaces. The head of service said the service will be scaled up to 40 buses after a successful pilot by FEMADEC which are one of the two private sector operators that collaborated on the implementation of the successful take-off of the scheme. She lauded the Abuja Urban Mass Transport Company Limited (AUMTCO) for agreeing to work with the private operators for maintenance of the buses. She also acknowledged the Federal Road Safety Commission (FRSC) for confirming the road worthiness of the buses and the Abuja Property Development Company Limited for securing parking space for the buses at the Eagle Square. Similarly, she thanked the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) for granting a waiver for the issuance of an operating license to FEMADEC Express which played a key role in getting the buses ready for operations. While saying the role of the FCT, Mallam Mohammed Musa Bello cannot be overemphasized she solicited his continued support for the provision of directional signposts, bus terminals and dedicated bus lanes in the FCT for smooth running of the bus services.