 Oluchi Chibuzor An author, Miss Ijeoma Benita Nwagu, has described the literary profession as one of the best areas that any child can use to leverage opportunities around them. Nwagu, 17, who disclosed this recently at the launch of three books (Notes From My Heart, Dear Diary, and A Twiddle In Kismet), said the books reflected her imagination on how she turns real-life problems and daily situations into stories, not just to entertain, but create awareness and educate people on certain areas relating to those problems. “A Twiddle In Kismet is a fictional play that tries to portray some overlooked problems in Nigeria like tribalism and ethnic discrimination, unsupportive parenting, forced marriage, child betrothal, rape and child excitation,” she said. Expressing their views during the book reviews session, book reviewers marvelled at her level of understanding and ability to combine her passion for science and her literary gift when some of her contemporaries have not discovered themselves. Mr. Pelu Awofeso, an author, said, “Children must be allowed to express their innate abilities right from their cradle. I commend her for thinking of such a plot in ‘A Twiddle in Kismet’. There is so much destiny has for us all.” Ms​ Diana Abasi, who also reviewed ‘Notes From My Heart’, said, “It is not every day that a teenager publishes a poetry collection, alongside a work of prose as well as a non-fiction book; all on the same day. Nwagu deserves applause for this feat. One starts reading the poems in ‘Notes From My Heart’ with the mindset that the author is an uncommon youth. But that is not all. The book unveils the startling reality that this youth is as preoccupied with world issues as much as the next poet, and she writes about those issues with a clarity of thought that is a delight to read.” The Chairman of the Association of Nigerian Authors (ANA), Lagos Branch, Ifeanyichukwu Avajah, said authors should engage with the works of colleagues beyond book reviewing sessions.