 Udora Orizu in Abuja Mass defection rocked Kebbi State’s chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) this week as two Senators, House of Representatives members and some House of Assembly members in the state defected to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Among the defectors, is the Senate Leader, Yahaya Abdullahi, and the former Governor of the State, Senator Adamu Aliero. Aliero and the Senate Leader left APC for the main opposition PDP along with three serving members of the House of Representatives. Announcing his defection formally in Birnin Kebbi, the Kebbi State capital, Aliero said his decision was informed by his effort to fulfill the desire of his teeming supporters spread across the state. He explained that before arriving at a conclusion of leaving the party, he made several efforts to resolve the issue including complaining to the national headquarters of the party but in spite of the intervention of party officials, nothing positive came out of it. He appealed to all his supporters in Kebbi Central Senatorial District as well as other loyalists across the state to vote PDP to ensure its victory at all levels. He said: “I, Muhammadu Adamu Aliero, people of my constituency, that is Kebbi Central and my teeming supporters from across Kebbi State have resolved to defect from APC to PDP due to the injustices we endured in our former party. Those in support of my political ideology were deceived and treated unjustly, hence the need for us to leave the party for another political party where we feel we shall be accommodated and treated justly.” Others who defected with them into PDP are Hon. Bello Yakubu Relisco representing Birnin Kebbi, Kaigo and Bunza Federal Constituency, Hon. Muhammad Umar Jega representing Gwandu and Jega Federal Constituency and Hon. Abdullahi Zimbo representing Dandi and Arewa Federal Constituency. Former Governor of the State, Alhaji Sa’idu Usman Nasamu Dakingari, former Speaker of the State House of Assembly and so on. Speaking to THISDAY, one of the defectors, Hon. Abdullahi Zimbo confirmed the defection. He however didn’t elaborate on the reason behind the decision.