 Francis Sardauna in Katsina The United Nations Children’s Funds (UNICEF), through its Cash Transfer Programme, has commenced the disbursement of N332.8 million to 20,802 out-of-school children and Almajarai in Kafur, Mani and Safana Local Government Areas of Katsina State. The Chief of UNICEF Kano Field Office, Mr. Rahama Mohammed Farah, who disclosed this during the launching of the cash transfer programme in Mani Friday, said the programme would ensure that the beneficiaries are enrolled and retained in school. The Cash Transfer programme, funded by the Education Above All Foundation (EAA) of Qatar under its Educate A Child programme (EAC), is being implemented by UNICEF in Katsina, Zamfara, Kebbi and Sokoto States. Farah explained that the funds would be distributed through 10,557 female parents and caregivers to assist 20,802 out-of-school children to return to school and continue with their education. He reiterated that each female parent and caregiver would receive  N8,000 per tranche twice in 2022, amounting to N16,000 per beneficiary across the three benefiting local governments in the state. He said the cash transfer programme would also ensure that Integrated Qur’anic Schools (IQS) in Kafur, Mani and Safana are equipped with literacy and numeracy skills to employability and livelihood schemes. According to Farah, “Through this cash transfer programme, a total of N332,832,000 will be disbursed to 20,802 out-of-school children in Kafur, Mani and Safana LGAs of Katsina State. “The cash transfer programme is being delivered together with the birth registration programme which has so far seen the registration of 20,400 children. I am also excited to learn that the beneficiaries of the cash transfer will be linked to the Katsina State social protection register.” Farah, however, said only 58 per cent of primary school-age girls were attending schools in the state “and this per cent decreases to less than 30 per cent by the time they reach secondary school age”. He said: “Overall, only one in three children who complete primary education transitions to secondary school. There are many gendered reasons for the low transition rate between primary and junior secondary school. “But an overriding challenge that the state and the nation must confront in earnest is the availability of junior secondary schools to meet the large and growing adolescent population in Nigeria.” He enumerated low educational attainment, intergenerational poverty, perpetuating inequalities and poor learning outcomes as factors undermining girls’ social and economic development in the state. Notwithstanding, Farah assured the state government of UNICEF’s continued support and partnership in order to deliver on the right to safe, inclusive and quality learning for every child in the state. The state Governor, Aminu Bello Masari, while inaugurating the cash transfer programme, described it as a laudable programme that will boost enrolment and retention of children in schools across the state.