 Rebecca Ejifoma A non-governmental organisation, Pull-Up Naija Group, has mobilized the  youth across the country to get their permanent voters’ cards (PVCs) and actively participate in the forthcoming elections for better leadership. Held at Freedom Park in Lagos Island, the group in synergy with the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), got participants to secure their PVCs during the launch of the platform. While educating the youth including the performing artistes on making the right choice this time, veteran actor, Ronke Oshodi charged them to sit up.“We have to sit and think very well before we vote. If you don’t think very well, we’ll suffer for eight years,” she said. The  poåpular in Nollywood Yoruba reminded everyone that leaders across the country today complete eight years in office before handing over. While encouraging them to vote wisely, she said: “Nigeria is a nice and peaceful place. But things are tight these days. Sardine now costs N700 from the initial price of N200. An egg is now at N80 and so are many others. So, get your PVCs and vote wisely.” The convener of Pull-Up Naija, Hauwa Allahbura, however, bemoaned the level  of participation of young Nigerians in the political affairs of the country. Speaking to the media, Allahbura said she was tired of complaining. Hence, she was convinced it was time for her to run with the initiative. “I’m tired of complaining, I’m tired of lamenting, I’m tired of not being part of the change-makers and not participating in change. “So, I just said instead of me to keep talking, how can I strategise and make people understand that power is in our hands and if we do not elect the right leaders, we cannot see change. So, that’s why I founded this initiative,” she emphasised. Targeting ages 18 to 35 of the population, Allahbura recounted how she got the conviction to take a step. “I was attending a lot of Twitter spaces and clubhouse spaces. We were always complaining about governance complaining about how we wanted to change and every time I asked for a solution. There was no solution,” she said.