 Hammed Shittu in Ilorin A non-governmental organisation, the Brain Builders Youth Development Initiative (BBYDI) has urged women and youth to come out and get their Permanent Voters Cards (PVCs) in order to elect credible leaders come 2023. In a statement issued in Ilorin over the weekend by the Coordinator of BBYDI, Mr. Olasupo Abideen, described apathy in the collection of PVCs as a threat to the sustenance of good governance in the country. Abideen noted that the declining interest of Nigerians, particularly the youth, in the electoral process had become a source of concern amongst relevant stakeholders, especially as Nigeria prepares for the 2023 general elections. He explained that “despite the electrifying effect of the last general elections, it was discovered that less than half of the registered voters, 42.76 per cent, officially voted. He said that “since the dawn of democracy in 1999, there has been a consecutive decline in election turnout, 57 per cent decline in 2007; 54 per cent in 2011, and 44 per cent in 2015. In the 2019 presidential election only 34.75 per cent of registered voters actually voted. “More than this, elections in the country are often marred by violence and disruptions. From 2006 to 2015, about 4,000 lives have been lost during elections. “It is important to note that young people constitute more than half of the voting and actual population in Nigeria and the involvement of young people in political movements globally negates the current experience in Nigeria. “Youth participation globally has been empirically established to improve and strengthen good governance. Their fresh insight and contemporary knowledge of society, technology and cultures can bring effectiveness and efficiency to governance at the grassroots. “It is against this background that BBYDI and Christian Aid have lined up a series of activities aimed at leveraging technology to increase citizens’ participation, especially women and youths in the electoral process.” He added that, BBYDI has decided to embark on enlightenment programme across the parts of the country which took the group to Kaduna State on the need for all and sundry to get their voters cards for the election of those people that would address the yearnings and aspirations of the people of the country.