 Sylvester Idowu in Warri The Bebenimibo family in Gbaramatu Kingdom in Warri South West Local Government Area of Delta State has solicited for support for the member representing Ekeremor Constituency 11 in Bayelsa State House of Assembly, Hon. Wilson Ayakpo Dauyegha in his ambition to contest for Bayelsa West Senatorial seat in 2023. The family, related to ex-militant leader, Chief Government Ekpemukpolo alias “Tompolo” expressed excitement over the emergence of Hon. Dauyegha as the winner of the All Progressive Congress (APC) Bayelsa West Senatorial ticket in the just concluded primaries of the party and pledged to work for him in 2023 general elections. The Bebenimibo family, in a statement signed by  Alex Bebenimibo as Chairman Bebenimibo Family and Prince Meshach Bebenimibo as Secretary issued yesterday  expressed implicit confidence that  Hon. Wilson Dauyegha who doubles as Acting National Chairman of APC State’s Assembly Forum will also emerge victorious in next year as the Senator representing Bayelsa West District. “As a member in the State House of Assembly, you have moved motions that are of significant value to the people of Ekeremor Constituency ll and Bayelsa State at large. You have shown your sterling qualities in term of leadership. Your remarkable, visible developmental projects in Ekeremor Constituency ll and beyond has vindicated you,” the statement said. According to the family, the lawmaker had provided effective and robust representation in Ekeremor Constituency ll in the state, adding that he should be massively supported to represent the Ekeremor West Senatorial district in the national assembly come 2023. “We the Bebenimibo Family are proud of you. We, your maternal family and Gbaramatu Kingdom at large are strongly behind you. You will surely be victorious in the forthcoming Senatorial election”, it stated. The family also expressed gratitude to the Minister of State for Petroleum and leader of Bayelsa APC, Chief Timipre Sylva as well as the State Working Committee of the party led by Barr. Dennis Otiotio for conducting free and fair election in the just concluded Senatorial party primary. “We appreciate the leader of Bayelsa State APC, His Excellency, Chief Timipre Sylva, Minister of State Petroleum Resources and the State Working Committee of the party ably led by Barr. Dennis Otiotio for conducting free and fair election in the just concluded Senatorial party primary. “We, appreciate all the party delegates and the people of Bayelsa West that voted for Hon. Wilson Ayakpo Dauyegha to emerge the APC Bayelsa West Senatorial flag bearer”, it added. While thanking all delegates for their strong support, the family assured total support for Ayakpo during the general elections adding “We will stand by you financially and in other areas that will make you win the forthcoming Senatorial election with landslide. You are the next Senator to represent Bayelsa West Senatorial District. “We appeal to all and sundry of Bayelsa West Senatorial District to support and vote for Hon. Wilson Ayakpo Dauyegha in the forthcoming Senatorial election 2023”, they added.