 Top seed Iga Swiatek underlined why she was the red-hot French Open favourite by beating Coco Gauff in straight sets to win her second Grand Slam title on Saturday. Poland’s Swiatek, 21, won 6-1 6-3 against the American teenager to record her 35th straight victory – equalling the longest WTA streak this century. Gauff, 18, was contesting a first major singles final and made a nervy start. Swiatek, who also won Roland Garros in 2020, took full advantage and went on to win her sixth successive title. By fighting back from a break down in the second set, Swiatek won the 56th of her past 58 sets. She also maintained her streak of winning in finals, extending that record to nine in a row. “I try to treat a final like any other match,” Swiatek said. “That is pretty hard and kind of not possible, because there are always going to be bigger amounts of stress. “I’m also aware that my opponents are also going to be stressed. So I try to not panic and just be less stressed than they are.” With clouds darkening and thunder rumbling overhead, Swiatek brought up two championship points and took the first when Gauff hit a forehand long. After a warm embrace with Gauff, Swiatek dashed off court to hug her team in the stands – and Poland footballer Robert Lewandowski, who came to watch on his day off from Nations League duty. “Two years ago winning this title was something amazing and never expected,” said Swiatek, who finished her victory speech to send a message of support to Ukraine following the invasion by Russia. “This time I had worked hard to get here and did everything I could, even though the pressure was tough. The pressure was big but I did it.” The celebrations were in stark contrast to the sight of Gauff, who was distraught as she sat alone on her chair and broke into tears before putting a towel over her head. “I’m super proud of myself and feeling a lot of emotions. A mix of happiness and sadness,” the 18th seed said. “I’m going to take this experience and hopefully learn from it and get better.” Not since Serena Williams in her prime had there been as strong a favourite for a Grand Slam women’s singles title as Swiatek. In a stunning start to 2022, the Polish player won five consecutive tournaments – in Doha, Indian Wells, Miami, Stuttgart and Rome – and took over as the WTA world number one following Ashleigh Barty’s surprise retirement in March. Since then, her level has increased even further and to a point far higher than any of her rivals on the WTA Tour.