 Michael Olugbode in Abuja A Multi-Purpose Community Centre (MPCC) built by the International Organisation for Migration (IOM) has been officially handed over to the Adamawa State Government. The $2 million project was constructed with funding from the Republic of Korea and is aimed at preventing gender-based violence (GBV) and improving the well-being of the affected population. “The Multi-Purpose Community Centre was established at the right time when the state needed additional facilities to compliment the needs of affected populations,” said Elaja Tumba, Commissioner at the Ministry of Reconstruction Rehabilitation and Resettlement. Tumba said that the project would deal with the root causes of GBV while enhancing the capacity and skills of community members, including women and girls. He added that the centre would provide a safe space for activities such as lay counselling, basic emotional support, skills development and other activities targeting especially children and teenagers to promote positive coping mechanisms, resilience and facilitate healing and recovery of affected communities. The IOM Nigeria Chief of Mission,  Prestage Murima, said: “Since the inception of the centre in 2020, IOM together with the World Food Programme have been working closely with Ministry of Women Affairs, State Emergency Management Agency, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Reconstruction Rehabilitation and Resettlement and community members to provide full support to those in need.” She revealed that in order to support the handover process of the MPCC to the national authorities, a transition plan has been developed in close consultation with the community and other stakeholders, particularly the Adamawa State Government, who would be responsible for the centre. Murima said: “I am convinced the MPCC will continue to thrive under the management of the state government to promote and strengthen a response system that complements existing local resources.” According to the Nigeria Humanitarian Needs Overview 2022, GBV, including sexual violence, is widespread in the region, in part due to the ongoing conflict, insecurity, and living conditions in camps for IDPs and informal settlements. It is believed that women and girls in Adamawa State have restricted mobility due to the ongoing conflict, exacerbated by the prevailing gender norms that tend to discriminate against women and girls. Communities hosting IDPs are vulnerable in most cases, and the IDPs’ needs strain scarce community resources. Head of Programme at WFP Nigeria, Serigne Loum noted that “the joint project is an excellent example of operationalising the Humanitarian – Development and Peace Nexus and Delivery as One approach. It aligns perfectly with the UNSDCF objectives and contributes to address in a holistic way the needs of affected populations.” The crisis in North-east Nigeria has led to increase in GBV, including sexual violence. This initiative promotes women’s and girls’ psychosocial wellbeing, create social networks to reduce isolation or seclusion, enhance integration into community life, participation and generate conditions for their empowerment.