 Chuks Okocha The Labour Party (LP) has called on President Muhammadu Buhari to declare a state of emergency in Lagos State following alleged attack on intending voters in the state. The party alleged that there was an attack on some people of the Igbo extraction, while attempting to collect their PVCs in Ojo Local Government Area, Lagos State by some political thugs believed to be loyal to the leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Some videos were trending on social media, indicating that some thugs had launched attacks at the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) registration centres. The party through its acting Publicity Secretary, Abayomi Arabambi, described the incident as “a crude electoral terrorism,” saying it did not portray the good intentions of the APC presidential candidate, Senator Bola Tinubu’s ambition Arabambi argued that it is a constitutional right of every resident in any part of the country of voting age to vote or be voted for anywhere they have been living for six months. The party’s spokesman maintained that the brutal attack on the Igbo people in Lagos state laid further credence to the APC government’s commitment to divide Nigeria on a tribal basis. He, however, called on security agencies to immediately intervene to forestall the breakdown of law and order in the Igbo densely domiciled area of Ojo-Alaba, warning of an impending brazen murder of democracy in Nigeria. “It is quite alarming and highly frightful that in today’s Nigeria, the Lagos State APC government could officially promote and sponsor open terrorism on the Igbos to stop them from registering for and obtaining voter’s cards across many points in the State. The Igbos are attacked and brutalised at the registration centres very heavily. “Most Igbos in the neighbourhood of over 66 per cent have up to now been unable to register and or obtain their PVC officially which is scheduled to end very soon. These are people who do pay taxes and do contribute largely to the economy of Lagos State. “The LP unequivocally here urges the President to without delay declare a state of emergency in Lagos State over this ongoing official electoral terrorism, treason, arson, and political banditry because a stitch in time is said to save nine. “Every Nigerian has the inalienable right to be protected by the government. This ongoing official rascality is gradually growing into becoming an evil by the Lagos State APC to run Lagos State into the abyss of deep irreversible political economic and social disaster. Of course, it is far very obvious that this would have a further attendant crisis across the nation. “LP also here calls on the National Assembly to become much more attentive and dutiful to intervene in the ongoing acts of political/electoral terrorism in Lagos State. It is a danger that could have an unpleasant consequence on the peace of the nation even in the midst of the now crippling larger insecurity in the country. “LP asks the Igbos to stay and remain very resolute in their struggle to receive their PVC as it is their constitutional due and right. “The Igbos are also advised to ensure that when they eventually secure the PVC, they must let their votes make a very strong statement as they voted wisely for the best party of their choice.”