 Sunday Okobi Monarchs in Delta State, under the aegis of Delta North Traditional Rulers Forum, have called on Deltans to embrace the ongoing voters’ registration exercise across the state and the country in order not to be disenfranchised in the 2023 general elections. The royal fathers in a communique signed by its Chairman, His Majesty, the Obi of Owa, Dr. E.O Efeizomor, and made available to THISDAY, said the continued voter registration exercise has become necessary because it will enable more eligible Deltans to register and participate in elections. King Efeizomor,  who stated this  during a meeting of the traditional rulers at the palace of the Obi of Owa, noted that the right to vote is critically important to the health and legitimacy of Nigerian democracy as well as its electoral integrity. They, therefore, urged all eligible Deltans who are yet to register to take advantage of the ongoing CVR exercise by INEC to do so before the expiration of the June 30 deadline, even as the court has stop INEC from the deadline. The monarchs also used the occasion to stress the need for security consciousness in all communities following the rising incidences of kidnapping, insurgency , armed robbery , killing for rituals and other sundry crimes. They called on security agencies in the state to be alive to their responsibilities of securing lives and property, as citizens now live in fear in their communities. At the meeting, Obi Efeizomor, who is the immediate-past chairman of Delta State Council of Traditional Rulers, reiterated the need for traditional rules in the senatorial district to work in synergy for greater understanding and cooperation in order to achieve a unity of purpose among themselves. The meeting harped on the need for royal fathers to carry themselves with dignity and pride at all times in order to consolidate on their achievements. The meeting was attended by about 35 monarchs, including the Obis of Ubulu unor, Issele Uku, Mbiri, Okpanam, Akumanzi, Onicha Ugbo, Igbodo, Ukala, Ogodo, Idumu -Ogo, Ejeme Aniogor, and Egbudu Akan. Other monarchs who attended the meeting are: the Obis of Onyah ,  IbredeAbah Uno, Ewulu Umu and  Ebu Abala