His first game for the Super Eagles was against Cameroon in an international friendly in Austria and inspite of a lacklustre performance by the three-time African Champion in the encounter, Valentine Ozornwafor was singled out for praise by the then Super Eagles Manager Gernot Rohr. Since then, the  Belgium-based player’s direction has not been looked at until his recent invitation to Nigeria’s 2023 Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers against the Leone Stars of Sierra Leone and the Dodos of Mauritius. The big question is whether Ozornwafor could cash-in on the two matches by impressing the ‘new Sheriff in town’- Jose Peseiro and make his shirt permanent? Valentine Ozornwafor was called up for Nigeria’s 2023 Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers against the Leone Stars of Sierra Leone and the Dodos of Mauritius. Ozornwafor, 22, will link up with the team in Abuja when they return from the United States of America. Belgian Pro League club Sporting Charleroi confirmed the centre-back’s invitation for the qualifiers. “Our African internationals will play several qualifying matches for the next African Cup of Nations,” reads a statement on the club’s official website. “Valentine Ozornwafor, selected with Nigeria, will face Sierra Leone before travelling to Mauritius.” The defender has been capped once at the senior level by Nigeria. The former Enyimba player was first called up to the full side in March 2019, for a friendly game against Seychelles and Egypt, but was only an unused substitute. Ozornwafor debuted with Nigeria in a 1–0 friendly loss to the Indomitable Lions of Cameroon in June 2021. Soccer loving Nigerians were not happy with the invitation of Valentine Ozornwafor for the Nigeria versus Cameroon friendly in Austria by erstwhile Super Eagles Manager, Gernot Rohr, but characteristic of the Franco-German he stood his ground and went on to parade the then 21-year-old. Ozornwafor played in the heart of the defense and he justified his inclusion in starting lineup for the Super Eagles. Ozornwafor was called up to the Super Eagles following a spate of withdrawals but his call-up was met with a slew of criticism. Critics pointed to the defender’s lack of minutes in the 2020/2021 season with just eight minutes for Galatasaray. The 22-year-old made his Super Eagles debut in the first friendly game against Cameroon on  June 4, coming on for William Troost-Ekong late in the game. He made his first start for Nigeria in the second game against Cameroon and impressed at the back, helping the Super Eagles to a clean sheet. “We had a problem in the defense so for the first time we played Valentine,” Rohr told Super Eagles media. “He did very well and we finished the match with Simon who is a winger playing left-back and we didn’t concede a goal. “I’m very happy for Valentine because a lot of people did not understand why he was with us.” “He showed today the reason why he can play with us, he did very well in central defense.” Meanwhile, Turkish giant, Galatasaray has reportedly transfer listed two Nigerian players ahead of next season. Turkish sports daily, Fanatik, said Jesse Sekidika, Valentine Ozornwafor and four other players, who were loaned out in the recently concluded season, have been declared surplus to requirements and have to find a new team. Sekidika was loaned out to Belgian club OH Leuven for the first half of the campaign and spent the second half of the season at Turkish second-tier club, Eyüpspor. The winger has not really convinced Galatasaray coaching staff of his qualities since joining the club in 2020, considering that he was also loaned out to Konyaspor in the second half of 2020-2021. Ozornwafor is also out of favour at Galatasaray and agreed loan moves to UD Almeria and RSC Charleroi in search of regular game time. He has played just one game, coming off the bench for the last eight minutes in a Super Lig match vs Genclerbirligi on January 9, 2021. The former Almeria star has also represented Nigeria at the U-20 level. He featured at the 2019 Africa U-20 Cup of Nations and the 2019 FIFA U-20 World Cup. Ozornwafor has also played for the Nigeria U-23 team in the past.