 After weeks of horse-trading, the Special National Convention of the All Progressives Congress takes off tomorrow amid intense political permutations that will determine the future of the ruling party and the country, Gboyega Akinsanmi writes At last, the All Progressives Congress (APC) is set for its Special National Convention, which begins tomorrow. Like the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) did fortnight ago, the ruling party’s delegates, three from each of the 774 local government areas nationwide, will converge on Abuja to elect their flag bearer for the 2023 presidential election. At least 28 aspirants had obtained the party’s nomination and expression of interest forms as a condition to participate in the primary. Of this figure, however, five withdrew from the contest for diverse reasons, leaving only 23 aspirants, who had gone through the screening, to face the delegates. Already, the leaders of the legacy parties that established APC in February 2013 have been jostling for the party’s nomination. They include Vice President Yemi Osinbajo; Senate President, Dr. Ahmad Lawan; a national leader of the party,  Senator Bola Tinubu; former Minister of Science and Technology, Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu; former Minister of Transportation, Mr. Rotimi Amaechi;  immediate past governor of Imo State, Senator Rochas Okorocha; Ekiti State Governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi; Senior Pastor, Citadel Global Community Church, Dr. Tunde Bakare; Ebonyi State Governor, Dave Umahi; former Minister of State for Education, Emeka Nwajiuba; Jigawa State Governor, Mohammed Badaru, among others. Amid these highly convoluted interests, different blocs in the hierarchy of the APC have been projecting their choice candidates. As shown in politicking recently, nearly all the blocs have also been lobbying President Muhammadu Buhari apparently to secure his buy-in for their candidate, one factor, they believe, will swing the pendulum of the nomination to their sides if guaranteed. The first bloc comprises northern conservatives, who were rooting for former President Goodluck Jonathan to seek re-election this time on the platform of the APC. As analysts have argued, this option gained traction because Jonathan, a first-term president, would only complete his second term and return the presidency to the North. Unfortunately, the plan to draft Jonathan into the race failed. However, another bloc within the APC came up with the option of Lawan. The Chief Whip of the Senate, Senator Orji Uzor Kalu, has been championing the realisation of Lawan’s aspiration. He even dropped his presidential aspiration for him on the premise that in the interest of justice and equity, the next president should come either from the South-east or the North-east, two geo-political zones that have not produced a president before. The push for Lawan’s aspiration spread like wildfire after former Vice President Atiku Abubakar emerged the flag bearer of the PDP. With Atiku on the ballot, pro-Lawan campaigners argued, the APC may not win the 2023 presidential race if it nominates one of its southern aspirants as the flag bearer. This option obviously breaches the gentleman’s agreement by the legacy parties that the presidency should return to the South in 2023. Due to the popular clamour for the presidency to shift to the South, the Southern and Middle Belt Leaders Forum (SMBLF) had rejected Atiku’s candidature, which it believed, was a ploy by the North to retain the presidency beyond 2023. As shown in the country’s electoral records since 1979, southern candidates have defeated northern candidates in the previous presidential contests. In 1993, for instance, the flag bearer of the Social Democratic Party, Chief M.K.O. Abiola defeated his frontline rival from the defunct National Republican Convention, Alhaji Bashir Tofa. In 2011, also, Jonathan as the PDP candidate defeated Buhari, who contested the race on the platform of the defunct Congress for Progressive Change, the second biggest legacy party that formed APC. As Lawan’s aspiration remains a factor that may cause upset in the quest for the southern presidency, a bloc within the presidency has been pushing for Osinbajo. This bloc has leveraged its campaign on the need for continuity, which according to its proponents, is central to completing and preserving the achievements of Buhari. Likewise, the proponents of continuity have been exuding an unduly high degree of confidence that Osinbajo has already garnered Buhari’s nod. But  with time, this claim will be proven, especially now that Buhari has been pushing a doctrine of reciprocity as a mark of recognition from the state governors to allow him anoint his successor since he never worked against their clinching return tickets or installing successors in their states. The last comprises all the state governors. Across all political divides, the governors agreed to an understanding to install one of their own as the next president. As a strategy, as some observed, they are seeking control of the presidency to enable them address gnawing issues affecting their states. The APC governors are now deeply polarised, rooting for presidential hopefuls of their choice. A group of progressive governors has been standing with Tinubu, who as they have argued at different times, has been an asset to the APC from its formation to date. Other governors have thrown their weight behind Fayemi, Amaechi and other aspirants. With less than 48 hours to the decision time, none of these blocs is confident of pulling through its plan to secure Buhari’s approval for its presidential hopeful. This became clearer just after the president addressed the progressive governors before he departed the country for Spain last Tuesday on an official visit. In line with the tradition established by former President Olusegun Obasanjo, which the governors of different political parties and political godfathers adopted in the states, Buhari introduced the doctrine of reciprocity in the APC presidential primary. He premised the doctrine on what he described as the party’s established internal policies that promote continuity and smooth succession plans. The president first justified his doctrine on the ground that he had encouraged first-term governors who served credibly to stand for re-election. He also explained how he had allowed second-term governors to promote their own successors without interference from the presidency. Buhari demanded the reciprocity of the governors and stakeholders to pick his own successor, who according to him, would fly the flag of the APC for election into the office of the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria in 2023. Already, Buhari’s open demand has raised concerns not just in the rank of the APC, but also in the public space. While some presidential hopefuls have intensified their lobby to be anointed, a few who have no hope of being chosen have alleged that the process of nominating the flag bearer of the APC has been compromised before the contest. Of course, the president’s responsibilities under the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 does not include anointing a successor. In his argument, former President of Nigerian Bar Association, Chief Joseph Daudu likened Buhari’s request for reciprocity to a coup d’etat, which flagrantly violated Section 1(1)(2) of the 1999 Constitution in all ramifications. If APC’s presidential primary turns out to be flawed eventually, the ruling party will unequivocally face an uncertain future.