 Oluchi Chibuzor In its continued support for workforce employability, Mackay, a management consulting firm, has partnered with Nigeria Employers Consultative Association (NECA) to boost Nigeria’s workforce development. The partnership with NECA will stir conversations around creating enabling environments for businesses. NECA is the umbrella organization of employers in the Organised Private Sector in Nigeria and provides a platform for private-sector employers to interact with the Government, Labour, Communities, and other relevant institutions in and outside Nigeria for the purpose of promoting a harmonious business environment that will engender productivity and prosperity for the benefit of all. Through the partnership also, Mactay will be interacting with the government and consulting with private sector employers on socio-economic and labour policy issues on how to better Nigerian workers. Commenting on the collaboration, Head, Business Growth and Strategy, MacTay, Mr. Chigbo Okeke, said, “The Private Sector is a critical engine for National Development and we are delighted to support initiatives that speak to this passion point. Manpower support and Development solutions are what we have been doing at MacTay for the last 40 years and we have constantly improved performance through our outsourcing, business process, and learning solutions amongst others. It is important for the organized private sector to join hands together to manage talents to create a multiplier effect. The future is a choice and multi-stakeholder collaboration is now more important than ever.” President, NECA and Chairman, Organized Private Sector of Nigeria (OPSN) Mr. Taiwo Adeniyi said, “The wealth of a nation is built by business organizations and its level of development and prosperity can easily be linked to the health of its Private Sector. Therefore, a buoyant Private Sector is indispensable to the growth and economic well-being of a country. There is an urgent need to establish a credible private sector national advocacy platform on which the nexus between a healthy private sector and sustainable inclusive growth is promoted.”