 Yinka Kolawole in Osogbo Monarchs in Ifelodun Federal Constituency of Osun State have lauded the outstanding performance of the State Governor, Mr. Adegboyega Oyetola, in the last three and half years, saying that he had paid his dues and deserves to be returned to office. The royal fathers described how Governor Oyetola has been able to successfully manage the affairs of the state as a mark of genius. They made the remarks when the campaign trail of the governor moved to Boripe and Ifelodun Local Government Areas of the state. This is even as over 500 supporters of the opposition Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) defected to the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in Boripe Local Government Area of the state. In his remark, the Aragbiji of Iragbiji, Oba Abdul-Rasheed Ayotunde Olabomi, declared the town’s firm support for Oyetola, adding that it was not on the basis of sentiment but strictly based on his achievements across sectors. The revered traditional ruler assured the governor of the readiness of his subjects to vote massively for him, noting that eligible sons and daughters of the town have been largely mobilised for the purpose. Oba Olabomi said: “You have contributed greatly to the development of the state. You have paid your dues, and you shall by God’s grace, be returned to office for another term. “We knew how Osun was when you came on board. We never knew it would be this easy, but with your native intelligence, administrative acumen and corporate intellect, you have successfully galvanised the limited resources and navigated the state through difficult times against all odds. “We have seen your modest achievements across sectors. As far as our local government is concerned, we are firmly ready and determined to ensure your return. You have never undermined us for any reason. And it is time for us to pay you back by voting massively for you in the election. By the grace of God, you will emerge victorious.” Similarly, the Olona of Ada, Oba Oyeyode Olumuyiwa Ojo, and Olororuwo of Ororuwo, Oba Qamarudeen Adeyanju, disclosed that all towns and villages in their domains are committed to reciprocating the kind gestures of Governor Oyetola towards them as evidenced by the different interventions of his administration. They said that they have mobilised their subjects to embrace Oyetola’s re-election as a personal project, saying a win for Oyetola is a victory for the natives of all the towns and villages in the local government.