 Onuminya Innocent in Sokoto The Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire, said President Muhammadu Buhari, is committed to the provision of quality health service delivery to citizenry. Ehanire stated this yesterday in Sokoto while unveiling some projects executed by Usman Danfodio University Teaching Hospital (UDUTH) Sokoto. He disclosed that since the inception of this administration in 2015, it has made a point of investment in the health sector through budgetary provision and special intervention projects, especially in the flagship hospitals. The minister maintained that in 2021, the Federal Executive Council (FEC) granted approval for the construction, procurement and installation of a linear accelerator and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) for some tertiary hospitals in the country. He noted that the modern medical equipment would improve diagnostics and management of cancer, neurosurgery and orthopedics’ cases. The minister also disclosed that the government has provided oxygen plants across the country to improve te management of critically ill patients requiring oxygen therapy. Ehanire said with the support of Nigerians, they were able to surmount the challenges posed by COVID19 pandemic, stressing that those who are yet to be vaccinated are to avail themselves for vaccination. He further explained that the government was monitoring the outbreak of monkey pox, which is causing anxiety around the world. According to him, “I urge us to remain calm as we are making effort to enlighten the public on the disease and how to prevent its spread.” He added that the Ministries of Health and Labour and Employment are doing the needful to resolve grievances of health sector professionals and reduce industrial disharmony, which he said was one of the factors militating against the development of health services. “I urge health professionals to support the growth of our health system by putting aside acrimony and focus on the provision of qualitative, affordable, accessible and available health care to Nigerians,” he stated. Ehanire congratulated the board and management of Usman Danfodio University Teaching Hospital, Sokoto, for achieving so much in their tenure, saying that that is why he recommended for the reappointment of the chief medical director because of the good works he is doing. He also commended the support of the Sokoto State Governor, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, and the Sultan of Sokoto, His Eminence Muhammad Sa’ad Abubakar, to the hospital and the federal ministry of health. Earlier, the Chief Medical Director of the Usman Danfodio University Teaching Hospital (UDUTH), Prof Anas Ahmad Sabir, said the projects to be inaugurated included the newly established nuclear medicine department , constructed brachytherapy  centre, cardiothoracic centre, upgraded intensive care unit, multipurpose centre, female students hostel, molecular laboratory, renovated trauma centre, renovated accident and emergency department , hospital road network among others. On his part, Tambuwal said his administration has prioritised health sector, as nobody can be active if he is not healthy. He maintained that in view of this, the state has established three premier hospitals in the three senatorial district of the state to complement the Usman Danfodio University Teaching Hospital in providing tertiary health service delivery. Represented by the state Commissioner for Health, Dr. Ali Inamme, Tambuwal further disclosed that the construction of Sokoto State University Teaching Hospital is in advance stage. The governor also said the state has built and inaugurated Farfaru Advance Medical Diagnostics Centre to avoid taking some advanced medical laboratory tests to some places like Kano, Ibadan among other places.