 •As Oke-Ogun leaders appreciate gov Executive Chairman of Oyo State Housing Corporation and former Commissioner for Justice in the state, Barrister Bayo Lawal, has been announced as the running mate to Governor ‘Seyi Makinde for the 2023 gubernatorial election. Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Oyo State, Hon. Dayo Ogungbenro, made the announcement in Ibadan, on Tuesday, shortly after the governor addressed party leaders, local government party chairmen and local government chairmen from the 10 local governments of Oke Ogun Area. The governor, at the meeting held at the Presidential Lodge of the Government House, Agodi, Ibadan, said following consultations with party leaders, he has picked a running mate from Irepo/Olorunsogo/Oorelope Federal Constituency, where his incumbent deputy hails from, to ensure balance in the power configuration. A statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Mr. Taiwo Adisa, indicated that the chairman of the Oyo State PDP, who spoke at the behest of the governor, stated that Lawal has been chosen to run with Makinde. “You heard it that the deputy governor of the state has left for another party and the exigency of the period made it important for the governor to consult with our leaders from Oke-Ogun, which he did. “The outcome of that consultations is that Barrister Bayo Lawal from Irepo Local Government, will run with Governor Makinde as his Deputy Governor in the 2023 general election. That is the interpretation.” Also, speaking at the end of the meeting, the deputy governorship candidate of the PDP, Lawal appreciated Makinde and all the leaders from Oke Ogun for choosing him as the governor’s running mate. “This is a great privilege that I won’t take lightly or simply but with all seriousness. Our leaders have spoken about the journey so far. A lot of consultations have gone into choosing me as the running mate of the governor come 2023. “Obviously, His Excellency’s considerations are many but he singled out a few of them – replacing his running mate from the same federal constituency where the current Deputy Governor came from. So, it is really a great honour for all of us in the Oke-Ogun region, which the Deputy Governor has been zoned to.”