Society Watch All roads, last week, led to Offa in Kwara State for the decorations of the immediate-past Managing Director of Bank of Industry, Dr. Waheed Olagunji and his heartthrob, Mobolaji as the Aare Bobagunwa and Yeye Aare Bobagunwa respectively by the Olofa of Offa, Oba Mufutau Gbadamosi Okikiola. The ancient town started buzzing on Thursday on account of the conferment of the titles on the public-spirited couple, with a well-attended pre-investiture lecture titled “Mobilizing Popular Participation for the Emergence of Offa Titun” delivered by erudite scholar, Prof. Akin Oyebode. Two days later, at Olofa’s Palace, the Offa-born couple took the centre stage as Oba Gbadamosi bestowed the titles on them in recognition of their contributions to the development of the community, amid pomp and circumstance. The event peaked with a shindig at Imperial Event Centre, where families and friends of the couple from all walks of life danced to the music of King Sunny Ade, who was on the bandstand. The couple earned their stripes as illustrious son and daughter of Offa on the back of their selfless services to the community. Dr Olagunju, a former television broadcaster with NTA, is a member of Offa Club 80 and was a key figure in the socio-cultural group’s social and infrastructural interventions in  Offa, including the construction of a township library, among others. He is one of the key players in Offa Descendants Union (ODU), a group that put in place a technology innovation hub in the town with the view to train 60,000 students/participants from primary, secondary and tertiary institutions in Kwara. On the ground to felicitate with the Olagunjus were some of the crème of the society, including the Chairman, Radisson Blu, Tajudeen Owoyemi; immediate past Pro-Chancellor and Chairman, Governing Council of Lagos State University (LASU), Prof. Adebayo Ninalowo; Muftau Balogun;  Mustapha Olowogada, who recently retired from the Central Bank of Nigeria, CBN; Kwara State Governor, Abdulrazak Abdulrahman; his deputy, Kayode Alabi; representatives of the Baba Oba of Offa, Prof. Lateef Oladimeji; Yussuf Ali, SAN; and Adebiyi Kure. Others were his former colleagues from the Nigeria Television Authority (NTA), Sienne Allwell-Brown and Cyril Stober, among others.