  He was once so promising that Liverpool saw him as one of Anfield’s future players and was also one of NFF priority player, but was torn between playing for England and the country of his parents. Over the years however, Sheyi Ojo’s form has dwindled so much so that the Reds were shipping him from one club to another on a loan stint, while Nigeria was no longer looking in his direction. It therefore came as no surprise that the Anfield eggheads in Thursday terminated his appointment Liverpool on Thursday submitted their retained and released list to the Premier League players following the conclusion of the 2021-2022 season, with decisions made on the futures of academy and first team players. The Anfield side confirmed that 2017 England U20 World Cup-winning winger of Nigerian descent Sheyi Ojo, will be moving on to new pastures when his contract expires at the end of June. Ojo started his Liverpool career with their academy team in 2011, rising through the ranks before he was handed his first team debut by manager Jurgen Klopp in an Emirates FA Cup clash with Exeter City on January 8, 2016. Overall, the onetime Nigerian Football Federation, NFF, target appeared in 13 competitive games for Liverpool, scoring once against Exeter City while registering four assists. Despite a promising start to his senior career at Liverpool, he failed to establish himself as a first team regular under the German football tactician, leading to loan spells at Fulham, Stade de Reims, Glasgow Rangers, Cardiff City and Millwall in the past five campaigns. The 24-year-old also spent time on loan at Wigan Athletic and Wolverhampton Wanderers. Sheyi Ojo once decided to go the way of Victor Moses, Alex Iwobi, Ola Aina Sone Aluko –all ex-England youth internationals with Nigeria descent but chose to play for Nigeria at the senior level after stating is readiness to ditch England and accept the request to feature for the Super Eagles at the expense of England. The 25-year-old has represented England at all youth levels from the under-16, under-17, under-18, under-19, under-20 and under-21 levels and was a key member of the squad that won the 2017 FIFA U20 World Cup in South Korea. Ojo, who was born to Nigerian parents in Hertfordshire, once revealed that he would ‘never turn down’ the three-time African champions but rather think about the call before making his decision. “To be honest, I don’t know much about it (Nigeria interest), but if they call me I’d be honoured to go to Nigeria,” Ojo once told BBC Sport . “It’s obviously a massive nation. I’m just really focused on club football at the moment, but I’m excited for the future, both club and country. “My parents are originally from Nigeria as well, so they know a lot about it. They’ve always been keen on the idea ([to represent Nigeria) but so far I’ve mainly been focusing on club football. “It’s starting to get to the time where I have to start thinking about my future. And of course, if Nigeria were to call me now it would be an honour. “Of course, if I was to get selected, I’d definitely think about it, I’d never turn down Nigeria. “I’m from Nigeria originally so it’d be an honour, likewise with England as well. If I keep doing well, opportunities will come by for club and country. “It’s not really something I’m thinking about at the moment but you never know what could happen in the future.” NFF boss, Amaju Pinnick had reiterated severally that youngsters of Nigerian origin who are doing well in England and other leagues will wear the Nigerian colours at the appropriate time. He said it had been in the plans of the present NFF board to build a young Super Eagles team ahead of the 2022 World Cup, adding that the federation is monitoring several Nigerian players that are making waves in the various leagues. “The initial plan was to take our players in the various clubs, but now, what are trying to do is what we call VIP scouting – talking to these young players that are playing abroad to play for their father land. No Nigerian, even if they have four or five passports, they are always excited being Nigerians. I can assure you that we shall get them to play for us at appropriate time,” Pinnick had said. Ojo joined Liverpool as a 14-year-old and came through their academy. He spent time on loan with Championship clubs Wigan Athletic and Wolverhampton Wanderers before making his competitive debut for Liverpool in January 2016. Ojo joined MK Dons’ academy when he was 10 years old. By the age of 13, he had played for the Dons’ U18 side and was training with the first team squad. During his time at the club, Ojo became the first MK Dons trainee to receive an international cap at youth level. On 11 November 2011, Liverpool beat off competition from a host of Europe’s top clubs including a multimillion-pound offer from Chelsea to sign Ojo, then 14, for an undisclosed fee believed to be in the region of £2 million. In April 2014, Ojo was joint top scorer alongside fellow Liverpool player Harry Wilson in the prestigious U17 Future Cup. Ojo made his Premier League debut on 20 March 2016, replacing Joe Allen in the 87th minute in a 3–2 loss away to Southampton at St Mary’s Stadium. Three weeks later, he made his first start for Liverpool in the Premier League against Stoke City at Anfield, where he assisted Daniel Sturridge for Liverpool’s second goal in a 4–1 win, before being replaced. He however could not keep pace with Liverpool’s ambition, so it’s been one loan stint to another until the Anfield side felt they’ve had enough and decide to finally part ways with the U21 World Cup winner with England.