 Kingsley Nwezeh in Abuja The Chief of Defence Staff, Gen Lucky Irabor, has  said security forces averted a plot by terrorists to attack Abuja and Kano. He said the planned attack in Kano would have been “the most catastrophic incident” in the country. The revelation came  just as  former Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen Tukur Buratai (rtd), advocated a combination of  kinetic and non-kinetic measures as a way of  tackling the challenge of  insecurity  in the country. He also proferred local manufacture of military equipment as a panacea to raging criminalities in the country. Irabor, who spoke during an interview with Channels  TV,  said the catastrophe was averted in Kano state the same week gunmen opened fire on worshippers at the St Francis Catholic Church of Xavier in Owo, Ondo State. According to Irabor,  the  security situation in Nigeria has  improved in the last one year, adding that the incident in Owo did not take away that fact. “Perhaps, you may not know that just only the same week of the Owo incident, in Kano, for example, given the intelligence available to security agencies, we were able to botch what would have been the most catastrophic incident within our country,” he said. Recounting how the process went, he explained that “in that operation, we recovered Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs) making materials. “We recovered a large quantum of arms and ammunition and other materials which, of course, the criminals were intending to use in various parts of the country, including Abuja. That the Owo incident happened does not imply that improvements have not happened. “Let me state that this is a process, and if you could take a look at the war stage in countries around the world, you will find incidents of violence and criminality in one way or the other.” On the claim by the federal government that ISWAP was responsible for the Owo attack of worshippers, he said the attack was one of the similar crimes perpetrated by terrorists whom he said would be wiped out of the country. He stressed that the security forces  lived  up to their responsibility in securing the nation, although they were working towards ensuring a crime-free society. The defence chief solicited the support of Nigerians and relevant stakeholders in tackling insecurity and urged them to focus on things that matter. “I will say that a lot has happened. There has been quite a lot of improvement in terms of the armed forces and other security agencies doing all that is necessary to bring peace to the various troubled regions of the country. “I can tell you that from last year till now, we have had quite a lot of improvement, from the North-east to the North-west, North-central, South-south South-east and South-west. “Of course, there still remains a long haul in terms of addressing the nuances that attend to insecurity in Nigeria,” he said. Meanwhile, Buratai has  advocated a combination of  kinetic and non-kinetic measures as a way tackling insecurity  in the country. Buratai spoke while delivering a lecture titled, “Politics and Insecurity In Nigeria: Way Forward”  at a one-day symposium on national security at the Arewa House. He said such non-kinetic approaches should include negotiation, dialogue and integrated approaches that could end insecurity through  involving traditional and religious leaders, media, security and intelligence agencies. “The public needs to be constantly sensitised on roles they must play to end insecurity as key stakeholders,” he said. He further suggested revitilasation of Defence Industries Corporation of Nigeria (DICON),  better welfare and equipment for police,  as well as establishment of a national border force as is obtainable in other parts of the world. Buratai, who is also Nigerian Ambassador to Benin Republic, also advised that the Office of the National Security Adviser (ONSA) should collaborate and employ all means to block supplies to terrorists. “Ungoverned spaces should be covered by states and LGAs  to prevent insurgents and bandits from moving around freely. “Fighters are always in the bush even if military eliminates their leaders and others, they will continue to recruit. Issue of dialogue is very important. If you eliminate those in the bush, what of their political leaders and their recruiting agents?”, he queried. Speaking further on the importance of dialogue, he said he strongly aligned himself with the approach being promoted by revered Islamic cleric, Sheikh Gumi. “This is where I commend Sheikh Gumi for his initiative. One third of the fight is military, others should be non-kinetic, through dialogue. We must get this solution and this is the right time to get it done,” he said.