 Fidelis David in Akure Men of the Ondo State Police Command have arrested four suspected armed robbers  at two different locations in the state. Three of the robbers, Victor Bright, 21, AbdulRahim Mohammed, 22 and Friday Emmanuel, 27 were where apprehended in Owo, headquarters of Owo Local Government Area of the state for snatching a boxer motorcycle and mobile phone. Speaking with journalists at the command’s headquarters  yesterday, the Police Public Relations Officer in the state,  Funmi Odunlami, explained that the arrest was part of its achievement for the month of May, stating that upon the conclusion of investigations, the suspect would be charged to court. The Police image maker  said the command also arrested a three-man-gang,  suspected  to have forcefully collected AK47 rifle with 25 rounds of live ammunition from two police officers, while on duty at  Ago-Ajayi, along Owo/Ikare-Akoko road. “The suspects are: Onyeabor Ezekiel ‘m’ 35 years; Dahiru Idris ‘m’ 60 years and Abdulraham Musa ‘m’ 20years”. Confessing to the crime while being paraded, the leader of the alleged robbery gang, Bright explained that the robbery was their first operation. He said: “I was arrested at Owo three weeks ago for snatching a boxer motorcycle. Last week Friday, we were transferred to SCID. After I and my friends stole the bike from a commercial motorcyclist who is an Hausa man, we sold it to one man at Elegbeka. We also sold the phone we stole from the okada man to the same person. The motorcycle and the phone were sold for N130,000. “I told the okada man to carry me from Ikare junction to another location in Owo. On getting to an uncompleted building, I put a rope on his neck. When he was trying to struggle, the three others came out from where they were hiding. We overpowered him and collected the bike but we did not kill him. The phone was tracked to the person we sold it to and that was how we were arrested. Four of us were involved in the robbery but the fourth person has run away when we were arrested. According to Bright, “the four of us shared the money. We have finished spending the money. I learned tailoring but at times I do engage in bricklaying job. That was my first time of engaging in robbery operation”. In the same vein, one Mohammed Sule, 23 was arrested at Shasha area of Akure for robbing some houses  within the axis. According to Sule, he used to storm the residence of his victim alone with a cutlass and a fake gun. Sule, who confessed to have committed the crime said: “I got to Akure last month from Kogi State. On getting to Akure, I could not locate my sister who I had planned to stay with. When I could not get anywhere to stay, I decide to go to Ogbese. When I got there, I was sleeping there inside the mosque. I was later pursued from the mosque. “After I was chased from the mosque, I went to Shasha. When I was finding it difficult to survive, I started stealing. The very day I was caught, I had planned to raise money for business. I went to two houses and at one of them, I was attacked by a man in the house when he noticed that I was the only one. That was how I was arrested.”