 Andrew Randa The 2021/22 Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) season for long periods has been a two-way battle between 2017 champions Plateau United and Rivers United. The two teams have been slugging it out until Rivers United opened a five-point gap, then seven and it has now become a ten-point gap at the top of the log. Powered by Chijioke Akuneto and Rafiu Ishaq’s goals, Rivers are top of the table with 70 points, 10 more than the nearest rivals, Plateau United. With five games left of the season, a lot of pundits have already given the title to the Port-Harcourt side, considering they can wrap up the title with just two wins from their remaining games. Only a monumental disaster from Rivers, a major one at that matter, will see Plateau sneak in, but they also have to probably win all their remaining games. Despite the odds stacked against them and the title looking to head to Port-Harcourt, a lot in Plateau United’s ranks feel the title race isn’t over yet. Centre back Andrew Ikefe,  forwards Jesse Akila and Nenrot Silas told wwe.npfl.ngthat they are still hoping for a miracle and have not given up the chase – at least not yet. “A ten-point gap is massive no matter how you look at it, but we will not give up yet. Football isn’t mathematics, as you know, so we will keep pushing until it is impossible again,” Ikefe enthused. “We are still fighting, there is still hope, but we will only give up based on the outcome of the next two games, that is when we will feel it is over. “For us, if we win our next home game (vs Gombe United) we are very sure of second place then after the next two we will know our fate, but we are not giving up,” he added. Forward Jesse Akila was also equivocal about his team’s title chances as he suggested the title chase isn’t over yet as Plateau United will keep fighting. Akila, who has scored eight goals for Plateau United this season, feels there is more to come from this season as the title has not been lost yet by his team “We haven’t given up yet because mathematically we still have hope because I learnt Rivers have two away games,” he told npfl.ng. “We are hoping they drop points there, and then we see how it goes, but be rest assured that we are still fighting,” Akila concluded. Nenrot Silas, who has been a mainstay in the team this season also revealed the mood in the team is one of hope as it isn’t over until it is over. “It is football, it is never over until it is over.  There is always a chance, and  that is what I believe. “Despite how the table looks at the moment, we at Plateau United will continue to believe it is doable as we are still fighting for the title,” he added. This weekend, Plateau United will contend with Gombe United in Jos while their title rivals Rivers United are away to Rangers International of Enugu in Awka.