 Folalumi Alaran The federal government has said the future of Nigerian youths is heavily influenced by election results because they have a higher life expectancy than any of the candidates running for office. The Senior Special Assistant(SSA) to the President on Youths and Students Affair, Nasir Saidu Adhama, stated this at the Democracy Lecture organised by the Nigerian Youth Congress(NYC) in Abuja, with the theme “Election and Governance: Youths As Watchmen Against Electoral Violence”. Adhama who was represented by the Technical Assistant to the SSA Dr Aminu Kyaku, futher said: “No matter the outcome of this election, we are going to be at the receiving end because naturally we have more time to spend than our leaders that are there today. Furthermore, he said the youths should not allow themselves to be exploited by politicians and should abandon the thought of selling their rights for a pittance of money. “We can be part of the process if we participate in any little way in electoral process, it only mean that we are taking the steps one after the other”. He further applauded Mr President for supporting electoral reform which was signed to law recently as he said: “It is the general reform that he has supported for INEC and for the new electoral act 2022 passed into law. “We all know that this electoral act has expanded the scopes, issues like registration and we can remember the not too young to run bill which was assented to by Mr. President as an act of law, that has actually lowered the age barrier that normally prevents many young from aspiring into higher offices in this administration”. “Meaning that legacy speaking, we can have many youths who can aspire for different political offices”. “There are part of the legacies that President Muhammadu buhari wants to leave of this country. And we can now see how this President has allow an open bill for every body to contest and we can seen candidate emerging”. “However out of the many political parties that we have we can only boost of having just a few that young”. “We need to push the youth agenda no body can push the youth agenda on our behalf we have to do it our self as the theme of today implies, we need to be the gate keeper and watchmen of this election”. He emphasized. Meanwhile, the President of the Nigerian Youth Congress (NYC), Comrade Blessing Akinlosotu,  called for the reform of the country, and its democratic system it is characterized by diverse challenges. Akinlosotu, pointed out that the unrest in the country had distracted the power players, arguing that with the development, good governance was becoming impossible at all strata of the government. He, however, called on the youth to coordinate themselves to salvage the situation, adding that their engagement is key to the development and the improvement of the country’s democratic system. “Historically, the Nigerian democratic system is the one characterised with diverse challenges and in recent times, confronted mainly with ethnic diversity which in turns breed insecurity in our society and consequently hinder our value democracy and make the governance of the country to grow worse. “The unrest in the country has also largely distracted the power players to an extent that good governance is nearly becoming impossible in all strata of government. “Whereas, experience teaches that the most critical moment for bad governments is the one which witnesses their first steps toward reform”. “The need therefore to take the steps needed for the reform of our dear country, Nigeria necessitated the ideas to organize ourselves as young Nigerians in a manner that will hold in view the mending of our impaired democratic system which has long since thrown us into insecurity as a result of lack in the mutual ineligibility informed by the ethno insensibility’’ On his part the General Secretary NYC, Dr. Raymond Edoh urged the youths not to be distracted or participate in political violence but rather see the coming election as a first step towards reforming the country.