 By Hammed Shittu in Ilorin The Federal High Court sitting in Ilorin, Kwara State, yesterday convicted a Student of Kwara State University, (KWASU) Malete, Mr. Aderibigbe Sheu, for posing as a widow resident in the United States of America, (USA) to defraud unsuspecting victims. Sheu’s conviction was secured by the Ilorin Zonal Command of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). Sheu, a native of Oshogbo, Osun State, was one of 30 suspected internet fraudsters arrested in Malete, Moro Local Government Area of the state on September 19, 2021, during a sting operation by operatives of the EFCC. He was charged by the anti-graft agency on one count of cybercrime and retention of proceeds of crime before Justice Muhammed Sani of the Federal High Court sitting in Ilorin. The defendant, however, pleaded guilty to the charge when he was arraigned before the court. Following his ‘guilty plea,’ Counsel to the EFCC, Ms. Rasheedat Alao, reviewed the facts of the case and tendered the extra-judicial statements of the defendant, including the phone, laptop and other incriminating materials printed from his devices, which were admitted in evidence. She urged the court to consider the guilty plea of the defendant, his extra-judicial statements, and all the exhibits tendered to convict the defendant as charged. Delivering his judgment, Justice Sani  held that the court is satisfied with the evidence before it and pronounced Sheu guilty of the charge and sentenced him to three years imprisonment with option N982,403 (Nine Hundred and Eighty Two Thousand, Four Hundred and Three Naira Only). The court also ordered that the Iphone 7+ and laptop, which were used to perpetrate the crime, be forfeited to the federal government. In the same vein, Justice Sani, yesterday convicted one Awoleye Bolaji, who claimed to be form Oke-Ogun area of Oyo State on internet fraud related offence. Awoleye allegedly posed as one Ms. Karan Vanslack, an American lady, with intent to defraud unsuspecting victims in contravention of Section 22 (2) (b)(ii) of Cybercrime (Prohibition Prevention) Act, 2015. Upon the guilty plea by the defendant, Counsel to the EFCC, Mr. Sesan Ola, reviewed the facts of the case and tendered one Iphone 6, the statements of the defendants and all the fraudulent messages printed from his device, which were admitted in evidence. Justice Sani sentenced the defendant to one year imprisonment with option of fine of N100,000 (One Hundred Thousand Naira Only). He also ordered that the Iphone 6 used to perpetrate the crime be forfeited to the federal government.