*Seeks disqualification from party’s presidential primary Alex Enumah in Abuja Some members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) under the platform of the Gaskiya Youth Movement have dragged a chieftain of the party and presidential aspirant, Senator Bola Tinubu to court over alleged discrepancies in the academic qualifications submitted to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), in aid of his qualification for the 2023 presidential election. The plaintiffs, Umar Iliyasu, Suleiman Baba, and Abubakar Adama, in the suit filed on June 2, 2022, are claiming that the educational history of Tinubu “is not consistent with the earlier forms C.F. 001” he filled in preparation for the Governorship election of Lagos State in the year 1999. Outside the academic issue, plaintiffs are also alleging discrepancies in the age as well as the indigeneship of the former Lagos State Governor and as such want the court to stop Tinubu from participating in the June 7 primary election from the selection of the APC’s candidate in the 2023 presidential poll. The APC, Tinubu, and INEC are 1st to 3rd defendants respectively in the suit marked FHC/ABJ/CS/774/2022. Specifically, the plaintiffs are accusing the APC presidential aspirant of giving false information in contravention of the electoral laws and constitution. In a 31-paragraph affidavit deposed to by one Miracle Udeaja in support of the suit, the plaintiffs submitted that “The 2nd defendant presented an incorrect educational history and inconsistent dates of birth in his forms and ought to be disqualified from seeking or contesting for the office of the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria under the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 (as amended)”. Plaintiffs further submitted that any person seeking an elective position under the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 (as amended), who presents a false document is disqualified from that election or any subsequent elections Amongst the issues for determination are; “whether, upon the due consideration of Section 131 of the Constitution, section 84(3) of the Electoral Act 2022, Article 20(111) and (iv) of the Constitution of the APC and Articles 9, 13 and 17 of the guidelines for the nomination of candidates for the 2023 general election issued by the APC, the 2nd defendant can participate or contest in the primary election on the platform of the 1 st defendant. “Given the questionable educational background and date of birth of the 2 nd defendant, amongst other questionable issues, whether the 1 st defendant can allow and/or permit the participation of the 2nd defendant in the primary election for the office of the president. “Whether the 2 nd defendant can participate by presenting himself in any primary elections with any political party in Nigeria to be nominated as a presidential aspirant for the 2023 general election scheduled to take place in June 2022. Plaintiffs urged that where the court answers the above questions in the affirmative, then the following reliefs should be granted: A declaration that “given the questionable educational background and date of birth of the            2nd      defendant,       amongst other questionable issues, the 1 st defendant cannot allow and/or permit the participation of the 2nd defendant in the primary election for the office of the president. “A declaration that the 2nd defendant cannot participate by presenting himself in any primary elections with any political party in Nigeria to be nominated as a presidential aspirant for the 2023 general election scheduled to take place in June 2022. “An order disqualifying the 2nd defendant from contesting in the primary elections on the platform of the 1 st defendant scheduled for June 7, 2022, or any other day as may be fixed by the 1 st defendant having not met the statutory requirements. “An order of perpetual injunction restraining the 2nd defendant from participating or presenting himself in any primary elections with any political party in Nigeria to be nominated as a presidential aspirant for the 2023 presidential election.”