 James Sowole in Abeokuta The Labour Party (LP) yesterday denied the report that it had collapsed its structure with the All Progressives Congress (APC) for the Saturday’s gubernatorial election in Ekiti State. The position of the LP, was expressed in a statement by the National Publicity Secretary of the party, Comrade Abayomi Arabambi and made available to journalists, in Abeokuta. The Publicity Secretary, who described the claim, as amusing dream and pathetic wishful claim, said the LP will be participating in the election as a party, with its own governorship candidate. Arabambi said the LP has only one Chairman in Ekiti and who the National Secretariat of the party recognised and had been relating with on issues in Ekiti State. He said: “Setting the records straight, Okunade Odunayo is the only known State Chairman in Ekiti while Comrade Roland Olugbenga Daramola and Alh Ibrahim Onile remains our Governorship and Deputy Governorship candidates for the June 18th Ekiti Governorship Election. “This is one public lie that can not fly. This claim is false, untrue and the public is advised to completely ignore the fake report. “The LP is amused by APC in publicly doing a dance of delusion , shame and open deceit parading former  Ekiti State LP Chairman as the LP structure. “LP has since being seen , noted and widely acknowledged as a party with a capital zero tolerance for all forms and kinds of dishonesty and negative attitudes. “Labour is a party that stands distinct and far removed from a party like the APC which deliberately talent – hunt thieves in the political space. “LP here strongly offers the public an especially good choice ahead of the 2023 Election, the choice of voting right for LP that is very committed to leading Nigeria towards a New Nigeria of a new standard and a new morality , all Nigerians desire and deserve.” Arabambi said the voting public should utilise the opportunity of the 2023 election to loudly reject the APC with their votes . He said:”All voters must vote for the only one political party that is people – friendly , sincere , disciplined , honest and responsible , the LP with its presidential candidate ,  Peter Obi,  fondly preferred by the majority of the voting public in Nigeria. “LP will keep pursuing the best interests of Nigerians and keep integrity , fair play , equity and justice as the corner stone of driving all its activities . “Electing LP and Obedient- Peter into the presidency in 2023 will mark the beginning of the best for Nigeria in terms of good Governance.”