 •Lauds Afe Babalola, ABUAD over favourable global ranking Deji Elumoye President Muhammadu Buhari has rejoiced with the Group Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of First Bank Nigeria Plc, Dr. Adesola Adeduntan on his recognition by Cranfield University, one of the most prestigious citadels of learning in Europe. Adeduntan would tomorrow be conferred with Doctor of Science, Honoris Causa and he is to deliver a short address to the graduating class of the university, a development the President in a statement by his Special Adviser (Media and Publicity), Femi Adesina, yesterday, described as, “another testament to the fact that Nigeria is blessed with the brightest and the best in all areas of human endeavor.” Buhari lauded Adeduntan for being a role model to the younger generation, showing that hard work pays, and with resourcefulness and doggedness, great heights are achievable. The First Bank MD holds Doctor of Veterinary Medicine from the University of Ibadan, Master’s in Business Administration from Cranfield University, and is Fellow of Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN), as well as Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria (CIBN). The president, “sends best wishes to Dr Adeduntan and family as he hoists Nigeria’s flag proudly to receive an honor Cranfield University says is being given ‘in recognition of your outstanding contribution to business.” Meanwhile, Buhari has congratulated the Afe Babalola University, Ado-Ekiti, Ekiti State, for emerging the best university in Nigeria and one of the best 400 universities globally. The president was reacting to the Times Higher Education World Ranking on the school’s institutionalised qualitative and functional education. In a release issued yesterday, by Adesina, the president also hailed the Chancellor of the institution, Afe Babalola, for the feat achieved by ABUAD, noting that the visionary and scholarly leadership style of the school resulted in the global recognition. While appreciating the respect and honour the latest ranking had brought to the country, Buhari, however, charged the management, lecturers and students of the institution to sustain the doggedness and hard work so that it would get to be ranked among the best 50 globally. The release stated: “President Muhammadu Buhari joins Founder and Chancellor of Afe Babalola University, Ado-Ekiti, Ekiti State, management and members of staff in celebrating the favorable rankings, which placed the institution as the Best in Nigeria, and 400th in the world. “The president notes the visionary and scholarly leadership style that continues to shape the curriculum, operations and results of ABUAD, since it was established 12 years ago, with the guiding principles of discipline, industry, determination, service, integrity, sound education and quality leadership. “As the university scores another national and global record for excellence, President Buhari affirms that the Times Higher Education World Rankings further validates the resourcefulness of hardworking academics, particularly in research, and diligence of students, who continuously stretch their bodies and minds to make history. “President Buhari affirms that the interesting fact that the ranking analyzed more than 108 million citations across over 14.4 million research publications and included responses from almost 22, 000 scholars shows the depth, acceptability and influence of the ABUAD placement, the best out of 197 universities in Nigeria and one of 400 out 31,097 universities in the world. “The president appreciates the honour brought to the country by ABUAD, urging management, lecturers and students to explore same focus and doggedness to lift the university to be among the top 50.”