 Ferdinand Ekechukwu In continuation of its efforts to discover, encourage and nurture talented creative youths of the state who can favourably compete globally in terms of content and technical know-how in film production, the Lagos State Government, in partnership with the Africa Film Academy (AFA), has launched a workshop to train no fewer than 600 youths in filmmaking. The project “Film in a Box Training”, which opened in Alimosho LGA last Wednesday, is yet another programme under the Lagos Creative Industry Initiative (LACI) of the State Ministry of Culture and Tourism in three designated centres in Epe, Badagry, and Alimosho local government areas. Speaking during the launch in Alimosho, the state Commissioner for Culture and Tourism, Mrs. Uzamat Akinbile-Yusuf explained the aim of the initiative “is to discover raw talents.” She stated that last year, the state partnered with organisations. Akinbile-Yusuf said, “This one is not the same with what we’ve been having in the past because we are bringing it down to the people in the locality. “Last year, we partnered with reputable organisation like EbonyLife Academy for training and it’s still ongoing as we speak. This one we are having here is just to bridge the gap of the skill. In this, we are getting raw talents that have the passion for filmmaking and that is the difference between what we have been doing in the past and this particular one with AFA.” On her part, the founder and chairman of AFA, Peace Ayiam-Osigwe (MFR) noted that the workshop will be training young people in the creative industry using a hands-on basic approach so they can understand the whole process of filmmaking for them to acquire knowledge to thrive in the industry. According to her, the training will encompass film directing, acting, lighting, sound production and actual marketing of films. She further explained that once they are taken through this process, they are not only going to be learning the theoretical side but also going to be learning the practical side of it. She adds, “After we finish the training within the next 2 weeks, we are going to be shooting a film with them.  We would use it to practically show what is possible when we train them not just to empower them in filmmaking but to use the skill to earn a living on a daily basis. So for us at AFA, we would teach something we have done for many years all across Africa.” Ayiam-Osigwe thanked the ministry for believing in AFA and the opportunity given to them as filmmakers to grow talents and capacity.  The event attracted seasoned film and television practitioners and consultants in the creative industry like Francis Onwochie, Mrs. Gloria Young, Mr. Keppy Ekpeyong and Mr. Sunny McDon who are members of the AFA. Also among the guests was the president ANTP, Prince Adewale Elesho.