 Gunmen have abducted the village head of Zira, Yahaya Saleh, and his son, Habibu Saleh, in Toro Local Government Area of Bauchi State. The abduction of the village head was confirmed by the Bauchi State Police Public Relations Officer, Ahmed Wakili. However, In Edo State, Police said   Police in Edo State   killed a suspected kidnapper during an exchange of fire  along the Benin-Lagos Expressway. The Bauchi State PPRO explained that the gunmen attacked Zira village which shares a border with Plateau State on Saturday night and carried out the act. Wakili added that the Commissioner of Police in the state, Umar Sanda, has dispatched a team of detectives and other operatives to the area while the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) has since been directed to begin the search and rescue of abductees. He said:  “Presently, our men are combing the bush in search of abductees and residents should be assured that the victims will be rescued alive.” The command is also appealing to residents to provide the police with useful information and urged the public to remain calm. Saturday’s attack has further heightened tension in the area. Residents are troubled by the increasing spate of kidnappings in Toro and they are calling on the authorities to take appropriate measures to curb the spread. The latest abduction is coming five days after bandits killed four people and injured three others in Alkaleri Local Government Area. Meanwhile, in Edo State, Police said  they  killed a suspected kidnapper during an exchange of fire with the police along the Benin-Lagos Expressway. According to a news bulletin by Edo Police Public Relations Officer, (PPRO), Chidi Nwabuzor,  the incident occurred at Utekon  Community,  Benin City axis of the expressway. According to the PPRO, other members of the criminal gang escaped with their weapons, adding that bush combing operation had commenced to apprehend the fleeing members. The statement reads: “On 20/06/2022 at About 0400Hrs, the operatives of Egba Police Divisional Headquarters,  Benin City while acting on a distressed call, that a gang of kidnappers/armed robbers blocked Benin-Lagos  Expressway By Utekon Community,  Benin City. “Immediately, Police operatives swung into action and moved to the scene and on sighting the Police, the hoodlums engaged the Police on a gun duel and in the process, the Police operatives neutralised one of the kidnappers while the rest gang members escaped with their guns. “A combined bush combing operation is ongoing to arrest the fleeing gang members.”