 The presidential primary for the All Progressives Congress (APC) has come and gone. Since the result of the exercise was both surprising and not, many people have turned their attention to the process that brought about this result. While there are disagreements regarding other things, one thing that everybody agrees on is that the exercise was peaceful and cordial. We have the comperes of the exercise to thank for that, including the Chairman of the Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (NiDCOM), Abike Dabiri-Erewa, who was co secretary of the media sub-committee of the convention planning committee. It is true that Dabiri has joined the venerable group of people whose every action is unfathomable, tending to turn common bricks into bars of gold with a casual touch. With her Amazonian style, Dabiri’s gestures have bordered on this line for many years. However, only now is it confirmed that she is indeed a figure of legend with unmatched panache and peerless bearing. These characteristics of Dabiri could not have been more obvious than during the APC presidential primary. As the chief compere of the event, Dabiri made a show of her management genius, organizing factions and personalities with the goal of maximizing party efficiency and unity. In fact, one of the reasons the exercise was a resounding success and did not follow the mold of party disharmony and discord was because of Dabiri’s arrangement of party variables. Then again, this is not the first time that Dabiri masterfully coordinates party meetings and exercises. During the primary election that saw Muhammadu Buhari emerge as the party presidential candidate, as well as the rallies around the 36 states she was also the voice that ushered him on stage. Others have even declared that hosting such delicate but critical events is in her DNA. Such comments are evidently true. So, yes, Dabiri was one of the people that dazzled the public with their performance during the exercise. As many have commented, this woman of dexterity, constant as the northern star, is obviously an asset to the APC as a party, to her state, Lagos, and to our country, Nigeria.