 Hammed Shittu The just concluded primaries of the two major political parties, APC and PDP in the country has come and gone but the winners and losers of that primaries have continued to review what might have caused such development. In Osun State, the lawmaker representing Osun Central Senatorial at the National Assembly and Chairman, Senate Committee on Media and Publicity, Suraju Ajibola Basiru, reaped the fruits of what he had sown with mass turn out of the members of his constituency to affirm his candidature for reelection. He was unopposed based on his outstanding representation since his election into the House of Senate. Although, the immediate past deputy governor of the state, Mrs. Titiloye Tomori- Ponle tried to challenge Bassiru for the ticket, but when she too saw the handwriting on the wall, she quickly returned to her cells, joined the line of honour and withdrew from the race. In view of this, it is no overstatement to say that giving Basiru ticket for second term is a well-deserved one in view of his past achievements since his election into the National Assembly. The eloquent and unifier lawmaker has distinguished himself since his election into the national assembly both for the people he represented and the entire 9th National Assembly. His election into the senate witnessed tremendous gains for the people of the senatorial district. His hardwork and dedication to duty, which he demonstrates at the senate and party level, also resulted in his appointment as the Director General of the Governor Adegboyega Oyetola Campaign Organisation for second term, which was greeted with wider acceptability among the stakeholders of the APC in the state. A lawyer by profession, Basiru has spent the last three years working very hard for the upliftment of the people of his constituency. The Osogbo born politician has been transforming the socioeconomic well-being of the people of Osun Central. This Senator, who was Attorney General and commissioner for Justice in his home state, is using this experience in discharging his legislative and senatorial responsibilities since his debut in the Red chamber of the National Assembly. Members of the APC in Osogbo, Olorunda, Irepodun, Orolu, Ila, Ifelodun, Odo-otin, Boripe and Boluwaduro local government areas that make up his senatorial district, said the lawmaker was reelected based on his unprecedented transformation of the senatorial district. They said Bashiru’s election into the senate caused a shift in the old order, putting the youth in position to provide qualitative leadership. Many youths have become employers of labour today through Bashiru’s laudable agenda for them. Bashiru’s agenda of developing education in the senatorial district has seen dilapidated schools wearing a new look while new ones were constructed to improve the quality of education of the rural populace that make up his senatorial district. He has also been living up to the expectations in the area of empowerment, to reduce poverty among his people and to enhance the socioeconomic growth of the area. Talking about agriculture, electricity supply, roads, boreholes drilling, among others, this lawmaker has distinguished himself, thus making life more comfortable for his people. No wonder, on May 28, 2022, the people of his constituents came out enmasse to give him a ticket for second term (unopposed) so as to continue with his positive agenda for the people of the area. In what is considered payback time, the people who came out to give him the ticket said the lawmaker had performed very well in the Senate. A member of APC in Osogbo Local Government, Saheed Ajao lauded the lawmaker for working for the people. Ajao said: “Senator Basiru is a lover of the people of APC in the Osun Central Senatorial District. The support given to him now to go back to the senate testifies to his quality representation.” He also said the lawmaker had remained a unifier, “and I want to add that the people of Osun Central senatorial have not been having it so good until the election of this lawmaker. We are prepared very well for next year’s election and by the grace of God, Senator Basiru will be reelected into the senate in view of his outstanding performances.” Also speaking, a pioneer secretary of Osogbo West Local Development Authority, Lateef Rabiu (KJL) said, “I want to say that Senator Basiru remains a good leader and has been living up to the expectations of those that elected him into the senate.” He said the lawmaker sees all the members of the senatorial as his family “and this has continued to earn him more respect in the area.” Rabiu added, “This is the man that has touched the lives of common man. His politics is a total paradigm shift and has made more life bearable for the people of the senatorial. I want to say that come 2023 election in Osun Central, the lawmaker would be reelected so as to continue with his good work.”