 By Fadekemi Ajakaiye Salvo Agency Co-founders, Oladipo Victor and Saviours Daniel have Launched an Academy to Empower 500,000 Entrepreneurs in Africa and beyond. The academy known as Air Money Academy is an online education platform which provides course creators, affiliate marketers and entrepreneurs in Africa and diaspora the relevant knowledge to make money online. Speaking at the launch of the Academy, Saviours Daniel said that the initiative was birthed by a thorough research model, to discover all the challenges faced by course creators and affiliate marketers. He said, “Growing up as someone who got to know about internet marketing early on and spending nearly half of our life online has empowered us with indescribable marketing skills and experience.“Being confident of our abilities, My partner, Oladipo Victor and I co-found Salvo Agency Int’l, the Nigerian-based marketing agency to help individuals and businesses bootstrap their ideas into products, and also help with their entire marketing strategy. “Having worked with newbie course creators, local big names and international clients as a sales consultant, head of sales and marketing, We’ve discovered parts which seem mountainous to many course creators. So anytime we see lapses in course creators, we cringe and desperately want to help. If you live in this part of the continent and you’re familiar with course creation, you would have known that it’s the latest trend that has been continually creating fortunes for those that could tap it. We have seen the struggles many aspiring or amateur course creators are going through. Even, many so-called experts are also struggling to scale through in some aspects,” Daniel explained. “As a creator, you definitely  need to validate your course idea. You can’t make any money without knowing what your audience’s needs are – which means you can’t sell your course if nobody desires to buy it. “So, after experimenting with the Africa internet markets at large, we launched a research scheme to have a verified knowledge of the real problem and appropriate solutions needed. That made us come up with a community that focused completely on thwarting the challenges and helping course creators and affiliate promoters gain indispensable knowledge and make more money online.” Shedding more light on the operations of the Academy, Oladipo Victor stated that the platform would positively impact entrepreneurs both now and in the near future. He said, “When it comes to creating comprehensive and sold-out courses that crack the puzzle, there are various actionable steps that need to be followed. You must validate your course idea, organize your content, design your offer, price your offer and also, get people to help you put your product right to view of the consumers, these are the army of affiliates. “They are individuals that help course creators to put their product in front of the right audience that needs them, and get rewarded for every performing action taken by the audience. Overtime, We have seen that only a few percent of people are taking advantage of this lucrative business model because they believe it is difficult to execute and some percent believe it to be a scam. “This unavailability of affiliates is terribly affecting the course creators because a few portion of the target audience is being reached. Which means, the sales will be below the expected total sales. We have sat-and-watch doing nothing enough. We are now taking massive action to bring 500,000 people out of the grip of mediocrity and fear where they wallow to where they make an inconceivable amount of money online legitimately,” Oladipo explained. “We’re now launching a community to help train course creators, and affiliate marketers make more money with the business they know; and we’ll also be recommending products that will help business owners make more money with their businesses.” The duo also revealed that for a start, they would only focus on the creators and entrepreneurs in 10 African countries which includes Nigeria, Ghana, Liberia, Cameroon, Kenya, South Africa, Uganda, Sierra Leone, Tanzania and Malawi and the diaspora. “In the first 12 months of launching this community, we’re undoubtedly looking to onboard 500,000 (five hundred thousand) subscribers of course creators and affiliate marketers in Africa and diaspora and then reach out for another milestone.“We will subsequently spread our wings to other African countries including the sub-saharans.” they said. 