 Victor Ogunje in Ado Ekiti The governorship candidate of Social Democratic Party (SDP) in Ekiti State, Mr Segun Oni lamented the orgy of attacks on his supporters few days to the June 18 poll, saying thugs are gradually taking over the political space and attacking perceived opponents. Oni alleged that scores of his supporters had either been macheted or beaten by political thugs in the last few days, describing this  as a vindication of the alarm earlier  raised that thugs had been imported to the state for the coming governorship election. This was disclosed in a statement by the Media and Publicity Director of the Segun Oni Campaign Organisation, Jackson Adebayo yesterday, saying the incessant attacks on the chieftains and members of Ekiti SDP was becoming unbearable. Oni added that about four of his members were also attacked at Itaji and Egbe Ekiti, in Oye and Gbonyin Local Government areas of Ekiti State during a campaign rally in the towns and are now being treated in two different hospitals . Oni, a former governor of the state, said he was not surprised “at the upsurge in violent attacks being perpetrated by political actors. We have raised the alarm before and the agents of the state are now executing it. “It is no more hidden that all the attacks are being allegedly carried out by thugs being sponsored by a party threatened by another political party. “On June 8 and 9, the APC thugs stationed at the Ilejemeje local government areas popularly called the Mayegun boys attacked Chief Segun Akinwumi, a chieftain of SDP threatening to burn his car and house before the intervention of the traditional rulers in the area. This one happened on the 8th before our campaign tour got to the local government. “In the same vein, property belonging to Hon Kehinde Babatola was vandalised on the 9th after the Segun Oni Campaign train at the local government left, the thugs in their 20s re-entered Iye Ekiti where they destroyed vehicles belonging to our members there.” “The second day, the thugs laid ambush at Ayegbaju Ekiti in Oye local government where we were to have our campaign rally; on our way they started shooting at our vehicles but for the effectiveness of our security backup there would have been lost of life.” ” Hell was however let loose at Odo and Oke Ayedun Ekiti in Ikole local government areas where the Fayemi thugs unleashed terror, shooting sporadically at members of the SDP who were meeting after the Segun Oni Campaign train had moved to Ijesha Isu enroute Ado Ekiti.” “A member of the Social Democratic Party in Oke Ayedun Ekiti, Temitope Ajayi was also wounded with a severe machete cut just because he was asking them why they should come to remove Segun Oni banners on his vehicle. The thugs beat him blue and black and later inflicted him with a machete cut.” “Also wounded were the duo of Mr Akinyemi Gbenga and Mr Temitope Ajayi while Mrs. Yetunde Fagbemi was not spared either. “It will be recalled that this Fayemi thugs had attempted to assassinate both the Governorship and Deputy Governorship candidates in Ekiti state, Asiwaju Segun Oni and Otunba Ladi Owolabi respectfully before now, while that of Oni happened at Efon Alaaye that of Owolabi occurred in the state capital, Ado Ekiti. “We are again calling on all the traditional rulers in Ekiti state to call the politicians to order before the situation degenerates to a full fledged anarchy.”