 Kemi Olaitan in Ibadan A member of the House of Representatives representing Iseyin/Itesiwaju/Kajola/Iwajowa federal constituency, Oyo State, Hon. Shina Peller, yesterday said he has defected to Accord Party (AP). The lawmaker disclosed this yesterday via a statement he shared on his verified social media platforms, where he also said he has formally informed the leadership of the House of the development. Peller had last week renounced his membership of the All Progressives Congress (APC), stating that his decision was due to the undemocratic actions of some political gladiators in the Oyo State APC, “who are determined to take the youths and majority for granted.” On why he settled for AP, he said though there were numerous options, “Accord Party has shown an unwavering commitment to the yearnings of the people of Oke Ogun being the first party in the state to zone Oyo North senatorial district ticket to the area.” The statement read: “Earlier today, on the floor of the House of Representatives, I announced my defection from the All Progressives Congress (APC) to Accord Party (AP). “After my exit from the APC, we engaged other political parties; we had numerous options, but we opted for AP for very peculiar reasons. “Accord Party happens to be the first party in Oyo State to zone Oyo North Senatorial ticket to Oke Ogun considering that Ogbomosho zone had done two terms. “The party has shown an unwavering commitment to the yearnings of the people of Oke-Ogun. It has given us hope and a sense of belonging. In Oyo State, the Accord Party is a force to reckon with, its internal democracy mechanism is intact-a component lacking in other parties. “Accord Party is also strategic as it concerns balloting. On the ballot paper, AP comes first before the two major parties. With AP as our party, voting sensitisation becomes easier for us to do. “Today, I would like to inform the public that I am now with the Accord Party. The logo of the Accord Party constantly reminds me and other well-meaning Nigerians of their civic responsibility-to vote for credible leaders. “In Oke-Ogun, Oyo North senatorial district and Oyo State at large, Accord Party is our strength, it’s logo is our thumb, it’s our power and we shall make it count.”