 Blessing Ibunge in Port Harcourt The Ijaw Youths Council Worldwide (IYC), has appealed to aggrieved Niger Delta stakeholders to forgo their grievances and support the Delta State Governor, Mr. Ifeanyi Okowa, in the overall political interest of the region. President of IYC, Mr. Peter Igbifa, said in a statement yesterday while reacting to criticisms against Okowa following his emergence as the running mate to the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) Presidential Candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar. Igbifa advised all stakeholders to rally around Okowa instead of pulling him down. The IYC president noted that Okowa’s current political status remained the only strategic and major position available to the Niger Delta in the entire arrangements for the 2023 general election. He said: “The only best political position available for us in the Niger Delta now is the running mate and Okowa has been selected to represent the region which could have been any other. If Okowa’s PDP wins, the Niger Delta will have the opportunity of occupying the position of the Vice-President again. “The south already have two presidential candidates from other political parties but doesn’t have any other position bigger and better than a running mate in the PDP. This regions interest is paramount. “Pulling Okowa down amounts to rejecting the only opportunity that is available in that political party for the region especially as the PDP is the biggest party in the region with huge followers. “Therefore, the region should unite and queue behind him to enable them approach the elections, as either way the pendulum swings south is still represented. “We urge them to forgo their misgivings and support the governor in the overall political interest of the Niger Delta.” Igbifa congratulated the Delta state governor on his emergence as Atiku’s running mate and pledged the support of the council for his aspirations. He advised Okowa to embark on fence mending to bring all stakeholders including his colleagues in the region on board and carry them along in all his decisions and consultations ahead of the general elections.