 Woman entrepreneur, fashion mogul and the Chief Executive Officer of Cotton Loops, Mrs. Bolupe Adebiyi, has admonished Nigerian youths to look beyond instant gratification and work towards contributing to the nation’s economy by building sustainable businesses. Adebiyi made the call on Friday, in Lagos during the fourth year anniversary and Founder’s day celebration, as well as the opening of her store and launching of a new collection in her fashion line; Cotton Loops, a sustainable manufacturing and retail brand for black and white artisanal style.Advising the younger generation, she said, “Younger ones should look beyond now because that’s the reason we don’t progress in Africa, we think about now. When I make N1 million, I pour it back into my business, to make it grow bigger and better. “So i will say overcome the urge of instant gratification, work hard, have a SMART goal, focus on it and also don’t forget the people coming behind you, train the young. I always say that, because a lot of us, as we get to the top, we forget that we were once young. “Also, for us to build the African economy, we need to have a 10-20year plan and that’s the only way we can grow.” Shading more lights on her journey as an entrepreneur “Cotton Loops was established on June 17, 2018 by myself Bolupe Adebiyi – an award winning social impact and lifestyle entrepreneur after attending The London College of Fashion, University of Arts, London and Africa’s No. 1 sustainable and ethical high street brand, was birthed. “In 2019, they came first place of 36,000 African businesses and won the grand prize of $13,000 at the debut womenpreneur Pitch A Ton program by The International Finance Corporation (IFC), a division of The World Bank and Access Bank and have gone to gain international recognition in global institutions associated with their industry, including top sustainability brand nomination and being on the runway at the Pure London show in The UK, exploring markets at international trade-shows like Magic in Las Vegas, Cabana Show in New York, Torino Show in New York and locally at multiple annual fashion trade events. “The brand has elevated minimal, conscious living and black and white culture, turned edgy minimalism main stream and this has earned fellowships into global institutions and accelerators including Oxfam, AWE, IVLP, WeConnect, 10000 Women (Cherie Blair), AWEC, CBC, WomenX, Halcyon (First ever Africa Intensive), Womenpreneur etc. “As a socially impactful brand, their 10000 Girls by Cotton Loops Initiative has trained over 3000 female seniors in public schools in their local community with the vision to have impacted 10000 by 2030 and this has earned them the support of and awards including The IVLP Impact Awards, USADF-AWE Award, Halcyon- Amazon Web Services (AWS) etc. “At Cotton Loops, all their black and white products are sustainably sourced and ethically handmade in their manufactory in Lagos, Nigeria and across their growing maker communities in villages in Abuja, Abeokuta, Lagos, Ibadan etc. across Nigeria in black and white colours only for global distribution to over 25 countries across the world and counting. They have worked with hundreds of young African and non African creatives in PR, tech, marketing, media, content creation etc. “At their fourth Year Anniversary, the founder – Bolupe expresses her belief in ethically utilising local African resources, showcasing the unmatched skilled craftsmanship generations of African makers are known for and achieving global success to improve and elevate emerging African economies. “On the 17th of June, Cotton Loops celebrates Founder’s Day, the grand opening of their brand new store at The Fourteen36 Mall – a premium curated lifestyle mall in the heart of Victoria Island, Lagos, the launch of a new collection and their 4th year anniversary. “With institutions like Cotton Loops, the future of Africa as a competitive global power is infinitely possible as they are ensuring that Nigerian and indeed African youths are constantly building their capacity to access global opportunities or even create their own way in the world and ultimately achieve their ultimate goals and dreams,” the statement read.