 Seriki Adinoyi in Jos The gubernatorial candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Plateau State, Caleb Mutfwang, has picked Mrs. Josephine Piyo as his running mate ahead of the 2023 general election. Piyo was unveiled at a brief ceremony held at the state PDP secretariat in Jos yesterday. Piyo, a grassroots politician, is a former chairperson of Riyom Local Government Area of the state and a former lawmaker in the state House of Assembly. Mutfwang said the choice of Piyo is about giving a voice to the voiceless. He said: “It is pertinent to mention that since my election as the party candidate, I have taken the responsibility of providing leadership seriously. I have begun by talking with, and where possible, visiting my fellow contestants. I am very grateful for their sportsmanship and solidarity thus far. The discharge permits to place on record the unflinching support I have enjoyed from the leadership of our party across the state, elders, stakeholders, and supporters since I emerged as our gubernatorial candidate. “Today is a day of history. I must begin to demonstrate my capacity for leadership by taking a very tough decision-the choice of a deputy governorship candidate for our great party. Fortunately for me, I have an array of qualified men and women to choose from. Ironically, it is a difficult one since it can only be one person! In making this decision, I have made far-reaching consultations with leaders of our party, stakeholders, and various caucuses before choosing my running mate to enhance the joint ticket going into the general election. “Some of you will recall that in the cause of my campaigns before the party primaries, I committed to giving a voice to the voiceless. I make bold to say that a critical segment of our society that is often neglected in leadership considerations is the women folk and yet they form a formidable percentage of our population. For me, giving them a voice is a compelling necessity. I, therefore, have the honour and privilege of introducing to our party members and the Plateau people a respected Plateau woman, mother, grandmother, daughter of Barkin Ladi, and wife of the people of Riyom. “She was trained as a healthcare worker and served as a public administrator before becoming a consummate politician. Ladies and gentlemen behold the Hon. Mrs. Josephine Chundung Piyo, as my running mate.” Mutfwang also described Piyo as “a grassroots and cosmopolitan politician, and a loyal party woman that brings along with her a wealth of experience, having served our great state dutifully and diligently as a nurse, teacher before venturing into politics when she got elected into the Plateau State House of Assembly in 1999.” He appealed to party stakeholders and members to join hands in the great task of winning the 2023, stressing that: “Our doors remain open for advice and consultations as we stay united.” Piyo, who accepted the position, expressed her gratitude and assured the state of working to give the party victory.