 Joy Akosa is one of Nigeria’s foremost digital expert that has contributed immensely to the growth of talents, businesses and brands through her expertise in the digital space and the deployment of the skills in achieving results. Her passion drove into the birthing of her company, Jacbell Media. In this interview with Tosin Clegg she talks about how she turned her passion to work, the importance of digital marketing for talents and businesses, role of social media and much more. I started from helping people publicize their businesses on my blog… And helping music artiste get more reach and streams for their music through paid advertising and then it expanded into a full scale digital marketing firm and that’s how I have consistently being here. Digital marketing is very wide and each platform is highly effective depending on the type of business an individual is running. Using digital marketing techniques, you can reach a global audience in a way that’s cost-effective, scalable and measurable. Apart from this it helps you Target the right audience at the right time – personalization is simpler with digital marketing! Enables you Communicate with your prospects at every stage of the buying process, to me it Saves me money and reach more customers for less plus with guaranteed results. The role of social media cannot be over emphasized. Because social media has a very wide reach than traditional media and to get more reach and customers people need to start embracing social media to their marketing tactics as it helps you reach more people beyond your space and gets you endless stream of income. To manage social media well with the various competition where 100 of brand of a particular industry are in one space for relevance the best approach is to pick a niche inside your niche. I call it sub niche. Dealing with social media negativity. Trolls will always be there and can be really frustrating and even lead to depression if paid attention to. So the best approach is to ignore. But it’s needful to know that social media is already censored by the owners because once you post something that is against their community guidelines they disable your account so it is already censored. You cannot even comment with vulgar words and get away with it on social media anymore. Content creation is the media itself. No content, no business or brand. Content is images, videos, graphics so it is what people see and how they see it. It is like a brick and mortar store. That is the first contact between you and your targeted audience. Now what makes them trust you to buy from you is the type of content you decide to dish out. Everybody is a content creator in as much as you post, the first gateway of the social media is you. In journalism we know that journalists are the gatekeepers but in social media everyone is. So individually the content you make can negatively or positively impact the society.  So we have to caution ourselves. As a talent make your audience love you. Also make yourself accessible not always but make sure there is a balance. Love begets trust and trust makes you famous and make money. You can’t really tell people how to manage fame but fame can get to you and you forget your actually purpose. Need I say fame is also short term. So while you are at it. Make sure you make good use of the moment.