 Ibrahim Oyewale The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) has arrested 227 suspects with a total of 3,804kg of assorted hard drugs between January and June in Kogi and Sokoto States. While Kogi accounted for 2,699kg of drugs and 149 suspects, Sokoto recorded 103 kg of drugs and 78 suspects. Speaking at a press briefing  in Lokoja yesterday  to mark the beginning of a week-long activities in celebration of the 2022 United Nations Day Against drug Abuse and trafficking, the Kogi State Commander NDLEA , Mr. Abdulkadir Abdullahi Fakai, said pointed out that 149 drug suspects made up of both males and females were arrested with the 2,699kg assorted drugs within the period under review include codeine, Methamphetamine, Exol-5, Diazepam, tramadol, Cannabis sativa, Pentazocine amongst others. The NDLEA boss stated that the agency recorded the highest seizure of 948.956kg in April followed by 307.815kg in May while the list of 59.973 kg was recorded within June He said that already the command has tried and convicted 29 accused persons while other cases are still pending at the Federal High Court, Lokoja. “The drug situation in Nigeria and indeed Kogi is disturbing, especially being a microcosm of Nigeria, and as a federating unit, Kogi cannot stand alone in the face of this ominous threat of drug abuse and trafficking. “The implication on security, economic and the general wellbeing is dire. Statistics and empirical facts from NDLEA operations indicate clearly that the drug problem is mutating into a colossal social problem. “It has become an issue linked beyond doubt to the escalation of insecurity and its attendant effects on peace and economy across the country, “ he said He said that the debilitating effects of armed robbery, kidnapping, banditry, rape and other violent crimes against humanity were contesting for the soul of our nation. According to him, “We know that drugs are mostly the catalyst for these vices because anywhere that there is a drug, there is a crime and vice versa.” He said that explains why the command has engaged in various operations, sensitisation and courtesy/advocacy visits to Gov Yahaya Bello,  Secretary to State Government, traditional rulers and the State security chiefs including the Nigerian Police and the Nigerian Army. He disclosed, “In the area of drug abuse and preventive education (DAPE), 25 schools and organizations were sensitized from January to date while 84 clients referred from investigation units were counselled within the period.” “The drug war is an onerous task that cannot be left in the hands of the agency alone.” He enumerated some successes recorded within the period under review including the arrest/seizure of a J5 bus, intercepted along the Okene/Lokoja-Abuja expressway conveying 750kg of dried weeds suspected to be cannabis Sativa, interception of 29 pieces of sewn military camouflage uniforms in a truck and arrest of a jailbreaker. Fakai, however, called on the general public for cooperation, support and provision of useful information to the agency whenever they see or hear something strange He added that all hands must be on deck as the Agency cannot do it alone, but the government at all levels, traditional institutions, Religious and opinion Leaders, and NGOs must give a helping hand to ensure a drug-free Kogi and Nigeria as a whole. On his part, NDLEA Commander in Sokoto, Mr. Iro Adamu said  the agency arrested  78 suspects and secured 12 convictions between January and June in Sokoto State. Adamu said 103.303kg illicit drugs and 73.759 litres of Codeine were also seized by the agency within the period. He added that 106 drug addicts were counselled while 58 persons were rehabilitated within the year. According to him, most of the addicts were brought to the agency by their relatives and urged families and guardians to monitor children’s associates and their whereabouts. He said a newly-introduced drug, popularly consumed by youths was now in circulation. The commander said the suspects were both males and females, while the seized drugs included Codeine, Methamphetamine, Exol-5, Diazepam, tramadol, Cannabis sativa, Pentazocine among others. He described the drug abuse situation in he state as disturbing and called for collective efforts to tackle it. “We appreciate the collaborating efforts of NGOs, traditional and religious institutions, sister security agencies and others in reducing the menace of drug abuse. ”The drug situation in Nigeria and indeed Sokoto state is disturbing, we embarked on schools sensitisation campaign on the dangers of drug abuse and other associated indiscipline. ” The implication on security, economic and the general wellbeing is dire. “Statistics and empirical facts from NDLEA operations indicate clearly that drug problem is mutating into a colossal social problem,” Adamu said. He added that it had become an issue linked beyond doubt to escalation of insecurity and its attendant effects on peace and economy across the country. “Drugs are mostly the catalyst for escalating vices, because anywhere that there is drug, there is crime and vice versa,” he added. He said that the command would continue to engage in various operations, advocacy and sensitisation to solicit collective action to tackle the menace of drug abuse and trafficking. The Commander called on the general public to cooperate with the NDLEA by providing useful information on the activities of drug traffickers and vendors.