 Acquisition strengthens Gupshup’s suite of conversational tools with a unified, intelligent Agent Assist inbox San Francisco / Mumbai, June 2, 2022: Gupshup, a global leader in conversational engagement, announced the acquisition of OneDirect, the omnichannel, AI-enabled, customer service platform of choice for leading brands in India, South East Asia and the Middle East. The acquisition strengthens Gupshup’s suite of conversational solutions and enables superior omnichannel conversational engagement with a powerful and flexible live Agent Assist solution that can scale to thousands of agents with configurable workflows, integrations with existing CRM & helpdesk systems. The live Agent Assist solution works seamlessly with chatbot automation solutions to provide the best customer experience on-demand, 24/7, in customer’s choice of channel and language OneDirect’s platform enables businesses to manage all customer conversations across multiple channels – SMS, WhatsApp, Instagram, Google Business Messenger, RCS, Voice, Email and more – using a simple and unified Agent Dashboard interface. Businesses can leverage Gupshup’s no and low-code chatbot automation tools to deflect incoming tickets and frequent customer issues automatically, while freeing up time for agents to handle more complex support queries, convert prospects with consultative sales and drive commerce with personalized upsell and cross-sell. Using OneDirect’s platform, agents are able to access a full 360 degree view of the customer profile, their past interactions and view data stitched across existing CRM and Ticketing systems. The platform also supports active listening and monitoring across social media and includes a feedback module for timely and rapid customer experience management. OneDirect has processed over 1 billion customer interactions across 10 different languages for leading brands across BFSI, Retail, Consumer Electronics, Travel and Hospitality. OneDirect’s customers have reported an improvement of 40% in customer satisfaction and reduction of operational expenditures by 25%, on average. OneDirect’s notable customers have a strong overlap with those of Gupshup and include brands like Canara Bank, Tata Capital, SBI Card, PayTM, Whirlpool, IFB, Acer, ASUS, Vistara, Indigo, OYO, McDonald’s, KFC, PizzaHut, Tata Sky, Dabur, Puma, Tata CLiQ and Flyin. “Customer support is being transformed with conversational experiences that deliver instant, personalized experiences using both automated and manual solutions across a range of messaging channels. Businesses are using these solutions at scale to dramatically increase customer delight and reduce support cost”, said Beerud Sheth, Co-founder and CEO, Gupshup. “OneDirect, with their proven leadership in helping leading brands transform omni-channel customer service, is a valuable addition to our Conversational Engagement Platform. We welcome OneDirect to the Gupshup family.” “We are excited to join the Gupshup family and look forward to building more efficient and personalized conversational experiences. Gupshup’s advanced AI capabilities combined with Onedirect’s robust customer service and engagement platform will provide businesses the ability to reinvent customer experience”, said Vishrut Chalsani, Co-founder and CEO, OneDirect. OneDirect’s key investors include Sequoia Capital, American Express and ru-Net. “Gupshup’s proven expertise and market leadership in the CPaaS space and OneDirect’s truly omnichannel customer service platform is a winning combo for businesses looking to redefine digital customer experience (CX)”, said Bharat Singh, Operating Partner, Sequoia Capital. “This will help both companies unlock new growth opportunities and further scale their enterprise CX offerings.” About GupshupGupshup enables better customer engagement through conversational messaging. Gupshup is the leading conversational messaging platform, powering over 7 billion messages per month. Across verticals, thousands of large and small businesses in emerging markets use Gupshup to build conversational experiences across marketing, sales and support. Gupshup’s carrier-grade platform provides a single messaging API for 30+ channels, a rich conversational experience-building tool kit for any use case and a network of emerging market partnerships across messaging channels, device manufacturers, ISVs and operators. With Gupshup, businesses have made conversations an integral part of their customer engagement success. Gupshup is present across the world in regions like India, Latin America, Eastern Europe, Southeast Asia, the Middle East and the United States. Visit www.gupshup.io for more. About OneDirectOneDirect is the leading Omnichannel Customer Service platform for consumer businesses. The company’s three core products – Service Cloud, Messaging Cloud and Feedback Cloud – help companies deliver fast, effective and personalized experiences to customers across digital channels. OneDirect’s platform has powered over 1 billion conversations for top brands like Indian Railways, Myntra, KFC, Airtel, Indigo Airlines etc improving agent productivity, driving operational savings, uncovering valuable insights and generating increased business opportunities. Media contact Yadunandan K VGupshup Corporate Communicationsyadunandan.kv@gupshup.io