 David-Chyddy Eleke in Awka The Governor of Anambra State, Professor Chukwuma Soludo, has clarified that the curfew recently imposed on eight local government areas in the state would only affect motorcycles, popularly known as “Okada” and tricycles, which are also known as “Keke.” The clarification was necessitated by allegations that security agencies in the affected areas were arresting everyone found outside after 6 p.m. But Soludo, in a clarification that was issued by his Chief Press Secretary, said: “The curfew in the state does not affect human movement but mainly three classes of vehicles in eight local government areas. “The local government areas include Aguata, Ihiala, Ekwusigo, Nnewi North, Nnewi South, Ogbaru, Orumba North. “The curfew prohibits motorcycles (okada), tricycles (keke), and shuttle buses from operating in the local government areas from 6p.m. to 6a.m. till further notice. “However, until the Monday Sit-at-home completely stops, motorcycles, tricycles and shuttle buses are banned from operating in these eight local government areas.” The governor charged youths of every community in the affected council areas to assist the security agencies to implement the government policy. He enjoined the youths to seize any such motorcycle or tricycle on the spot. He said: “Local vigilantes have also been authorised to report such motorcycles, tricycles (keke) or shuttle buses immediately, and they will be confiscated by government and the owner prosecuted. “In the same vein, okada, keke, and shuttle bus union leaders are to take responsibility to report their members who are involved in any criminal activities.” The governor called on security agents to desist from unlawful arrest of Anambra people or residents who are on lawful engagements. “They are not to be intimidated or molested by security agents but are advised to be conscious of their security and report or forward information about suspicious activities around them or their communities,” Soluda said.