 Founder and Chairman of Echendu Group and Sponsor of the Lord Echendu Foundation, Lord Echendu Ndubuisi has restated that his humanitarian foundation remains locally-focused but globally-minded. According to the business mogul, LEF which is at the forefront of humanitarian services in Africa and beyond is focused on education, healthcare and poverty alleviation in places like Nigeria. The Non-governmental organization foundation was incorporated in September 2015, and duly registered in Nigeria as Echendu Unify.On 30th May 2022 The Echendu Unify as it was formerly known was then changed and became Echendu Foundation as it is called today. “The focus has not changed but remained dedicated to consequential programs to liberate and leverage vulnerable and less privileged members of the society,” Ndubuisi said in a recent interview. “At LEF, we have been responsible for the following humanitarian services, just to mention a few; scholarship to a few undergraduate students in West Africa, from 2015 – to 2022 which includes: University of Port Harcourt, Rivers State University of Science and technology, Nigeria University of cape coast, Ghana, The University of Wa, The University of East Legon and Anglia Ruskin University, The United Kingdom. “In 2020 donation to Ankaful prison cape coast, Ghana, Lord Echendu foundation made donations to hour of Grace Orphanage Homes. In 2019 donation to James town hospital, from 2016 to 202, yearly personal development stipends payment to rivers state youth, with hashtag (riversstipends) “From 2019 to 2022 donates to the elderly, monthly stipends and community development, in 2022, free jamb form for less privileged o level students to get into the universities. “The lord Echendu foundation played an instrumental role to Nigerians during the covid-19 pandemic when the world was on lockdown with the distribution cash donation, food items, hand sanitizers, distribution of facemasks to cities in Nigeria, Ghana and more other west Africa countries. “Lord Echendu foundation has a passion for unifying young African minds towards entrepreneurship, over the years he has been making an impact in supporting the youth through a skilled program on entrepreneurism. “Lord Echendu foundation has compassion for the homeless, over years, the nonprofit organization carried out a project in feeding the Homeless on the streets,” he added. Since the establishment of The Echendu Foundation in 2015 the sole vision of this Humanitarian organization stays focused on improving the quality of life for people not just in Nigeria, but Africa as a whole. Born in the city of Port Harcourt, Lord Echendu lived his very early life in Nigeria and then relocated to the United Kingdom where he currently resides. He is an Engineer by profession, with a bachelor’s degree in one of the prestigious University, United Kingdom and furthered other professional business certifications at the Harvard business school, Metropolitan Business School London, and the International Business Management Institute, Cambridge. Lord Echendu has to his shelf several awards and memberships including the Model United nation award, Young Entrepreneur/Business of the year award, The founder award, Philanthropist of the year Award, among others.He is a member of the Society of Petroleum Engineers andalso an appointed member of Global chambers of business leaders.