 David-Chyddy Eleke in Awka The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has cautioned those involved in the killings, kidnappings and criminalities going on in the South-East region to stop if they want the Biafra freedom to be realised. IPOB, a pro-Biafra secessionist movement, said those who claimed “to be its members and others need to understand that enemies will capitalise on the killings and insecurity in the South-east to blackmail the group and its peaceful agitation.” This was contained in a statement by Media and Publicity Secretary, Emma Powerful, noting that most of the killings always happened a few days before Kanu’s court dates. Consequently, the IPOB said it looked as if the group perpetrated it. It specifically said: “Anybody who wants our leader, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, out of the DSS dungeon and the realisation of Biafra freedom must stop being involved in criminalities going on in the South-East. “Biafrans should take cognizance of the timing of these heinous and barbaric acts of violence and murder. Our people and the world community should note that most of these heinous killings happen a few days before our leader’s court dates. “For instance, the army couple, the house of the assembly member, the pregnant Hausa woman. These killings could not reasonably have been done or perpetrated by IPOB. “Kanu wants any person who desires his genuine freedom to stop all forms of criminalities going-on in the region and ensure he or she works in tandem with the structure he put in place and joins with them to move this struggle forward. It said the criminal activities would only complicate Kanu’s case and turn his people against him and against the Biafran cause, which according to the group, is what the Nigeria government wants. It pointed out that every genuine member of IPOB should focus on the struggle to liberate its people and not be involved with criminality of any sort and ensure that the land is peaceful and conducive. The statement read in part, “Our people and those who claimed to be IPOB members need to understand that enemies will capitalise on the killings and insecurity in the South East to blackmail IPOB and our peaceful agitation. “These atrocities are being committed by people who want to ensure that Mazi Nnamdi Kanu doesn’t come out of DSS custody.