Ugo Aliogo BIC has announced today the kick-off of its flagship art competition, Art Master Africa, in its fifth edition. A statement by the organization said the competition invites talent across Africa and the Middle East to express their creativity by producing artwork using the infamous BIC ballpoint pen. The statement also noted that this year’s competition theme is ‘Celebrating Africa’, inviting artists to present their identity as well as their different perceptions of the African continent and cultures. The statement also noted that Art Master Africa is an annual competition that is open to artists and creatives across the Middle East and Africa region. The statement added that the competition was incepted in 2017 in South Africa, adding that dollowing its success, Art Master Africa expanded into the Africa region in 2019 and into the Middle East in 2021. The statement hinted that artists can enter the competition by submitting up to three original artworks of what ‘Celebrating Africa’ means to them. The statement remarked that submissions would then be reviewed and shortlisted by a panel of judges including artists, art professors, art collectors, as well as winners from the 2019 and 2021 competition, Gayi Eric and Oscar Ukonu. The statement stated that the submission phase will run from 15-06-2022 until 31-08-2022, “once the judging phase is completed in September, winners will be announced and celebrated by the 15th of October 2022.” Commenting on the occasion, Senior Vice President and General Manager, Middle East and Africa at BIC, Peter Van den Broeck, said: “We are ecstatic to announce the kick-off of the fifth edition of the Art Master Africa competition. Our flagship competition speaks to our belief in the importance and power of creativity and self-expression. Through Art Master Africa we have touched and impacted many across the region, and we plan to continue to motivate and encourage the younger generation and creative community to express themselves innovatively, as we build on and elevate our campaign year-on-year.” Continuing, the statement added: “First, second, and third place regional winners will be named Africa’s Art Masters, will be celebrated in their respective countries, and will receive cash prizes of USD 2,000, USD 1,000, and USD 500 respectively. The first-place regional winner will also get their online personal gallery as well as the opportunity to join the BIC Art Collection exhibited in Paris, France. National winners will receive a prize of USD 500 each. To find out more about the Art Master Africa competition, visit the website here. “BIC’s connection to art spans more than 60 years. The brand regularly celebrates the creativity and originality of artists who find great inspiration in creating masterpieces using BIC’s products. BIC’s Art Collection includes over 250 works of art by 80 international artists. BIC has several established partnerships with art institutes around the world and has its products displayed in renowned museums around the world.”