 Ibrahim Shuaibu in Kano A presidential aspirant on the platform of Peoples Redemption Party (PRP), Abdulfattah Durojaiye, has withdrawn from the electoral contest in the 2023 general election. Durojaiye announced his decision to withdraw from the contest at a press conference with journalist in Kano yesterday. According to him, “PRP was known to be among the strongest parties in Nigeria and capable enough to seize power from the All Progressive Congress (APC), but now the party is just like a beautiful car with a knocked engine, hence it has become unreliable.” Durojaiye said the decision became necessary considering the leadership crisis rocking the party, which will prevent it from making significant impact in the coming elections. He said: “When I announced my candidacy on February 19, 2022, I came with purity of intention and clarity of purpose, and I carefully chose a platform on which to run, the PRP. My intention is always to consider the people first with desire to make a positive change in Nigeria. We know we have a lot of problems, but we know all our problems are solvable. “After I joined the race and the party, I saw that the party is heavily factionalised and all efforts to unify the party were not successful. I personally made efforts to make sure I brought the two factions together so that we can move with a unified campaign but it seems all the characters involved are not ready for that. We have invested our time, energy, expertise and money to build PRP, but the crisis and selfish interest did not allow for that. That is why I have announced my withdrawal from the contest.” He said his decision doesn’t mean the PRP is a bad party, but as at the present time, it cannot deliver and secure a presidential seat for any aspirant. Durojaiye added that withdrawing from the contest would not prevent him from doing his humanitarian assistant to Nigerians and his move to inculcate positive changes in the country, expressing that he is ready to support any candidate that shares the same vision with him.