 Chuks Okocha in Abuja As the search for the running mate to the Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) , Alhaji Abubakar Atiku, continues, the Caucus of the Progressives in the House of Representatives is to meet in Abuja today to endorse the candidature of the River State Governor, Nyesom Wike for the position. The special committee set up by the PDP will unveil its report Tuesday This was contained in a statement made available to news men in Abuja yesterday by the leader of the group, Hon Busayo Oluwole Oke, the member representing, Obokun/ Oriade Federal Constituency of Osun state under the platform of the PDP. According to Hon Oke, who is also the Chairman of the House of Representatives Committee on Public Accounts, the endearment is coming ahead of the deadline given to a high powered committee already put in place by the leadership of the party on the selection of a suitable candidate for the position. He explained that the membership of the caucus comprising  committed party faithful across the six geo-political zones of the country in the Green Chamber resolved to endorse Governor Wike after in depth consideration of his immense contributions to the growth of the party over the years and his capability of leading the party to total victory at the polls. “We, the progressives at the green chamber of the National Assembly under the umbrella of our great party,  (PDP) are meeting on Monday(today) in Abuja to endorse the candidature of the River State Governor, His Excellency, Nyesom Wike as the vice presidential candidate of our party. “We have been watching with keen interest all his activities over the years and we have also assessed his ability and capability in all the spheres of life, and we have seen in him , all what the party needs to win the Presidential poll come 2023 with our presidential candidate, Alhahi Abubakar Atiku,  leading, we have total confidence in the duo. Gov Wike’s achievements as Governor of River state is of public knowledge and towers above others in the land. He is a fighter for true federalism highly detribalised and defender of our constitution. While we respect the right of Presidential Candidate to Choose the person he wants, his decision to embark on wider consultation is commendable and a sign of a true democrat.  The Caucus will meet with our Presidential flagbearer to convey our position to him almost immediately”, the federal lawmaker declared.”