 The Minister of State for Transportation, Senator Gbemisola Saraki has reaffirmed the position of the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) on the total reconstruction of Quay walls of the TinCan Island Port Complex which have become weak due to age. Speaking during her tour of the Lagos port complex yesterday, the minister was quoted in a statement to have said: “We cannot build on a weak foundation, it is vital that we get these two very important ports modernised and ready to berth modern vessels. The state of the ports show decades of neglect but it’s better late than never.” He comment was in harmony with that of the Managing Director, NPA, Mohammed Bello Koko who had allayed fears of the imminent collapse of the Tincan Island Island port complex as the Authority was already at conclusive stages on funding options. This includes talks with competent multilateral funding institutions and the possibility of the Authority using a percentage of the revenue or transfers to CRF to fund the reconstruction . Koko on several interactions with the media  drawn attention to the fact that, “although the NPA had over the years been undertaking remedial works on the quays, the time has come for a holistic reconstruction and the Authority is working with the Federal Ministry of Transportation on the most prudent funding option.” Koko said: “We are on the verge of concluding discussions with multilateral funding agencies to fund the reconstruction. The other option is to go to the government to request that the NPA be allowed to use a certain percentage of its revenue which is transferred to the consolidated revenue fund (CRF) on yearly basis to fund the reconstruction. “We transfer about N60 billion a year and we can use about 50 percent of that to repair Tin-Can. Another option is to do hybrid funding where NPA funds part and multilateral agencies fund the rest.” He said the final option was for the terminal operators to fund the reconstruction but the issue is that not all the terminal operators have the same financial capacity or will be able to source funds at the same time. To him, the NPA does not want a haphazard reconstruction because starting Terminal A without Funding for reconstruction of terminal B may affect the safety and integrity of the berths neighbouring, adding that the process would be properly coordinated working with the Federal Ministry of Transportation to make a decision that would be taken at the right time and properly. “Cognisant of the urgency of the situation on ground we might soon be seeking for Federal Executive Council for approvals. We have started working on securing a holistic interim and conceptual design for the port, and we will eventually get the final design on move unto the Procurement process,” he added.