 Emmanuel Olorunda-Otaru and Rebecca Ejifoma Following the massacre of some worshippers at St. Francis Catholic Church Owo, Ondo State on June 5, 2022, Owo Is One Association has appealed to the federal government to permit the state security service, Amotekun, to bear arms so as to  protect lives and property. The association, which is the apex body of all societies and associations in the Owo kingdom, equally charged the federal government to seek assistance from foreign nations that have dealt with terrorist activities successfully in the past. According to the association, this will help beef up security in the state and the South-west region, to avert future attacks. Addressing newsmen in Lagos, the National Coordinator of the association, Mr. Akinboro Aruwajoye, described the incident as barbaric and has unraveled the many loopholes. He said: “This has thrown up a lot of gaps and lapses in our security set-up  prevention and response. Total lack of intelligence support to guide our security response activities needs to be rejigged.” Aruwajoye described the emergency response in Owo town as very poor, emphasising that the two police divisions in the town had no vehicles or ambulances to evacuate victims. He also called for urgent sensitisation of inhabitants on handling of  emergencies and the need to provide tools for police and other emergency services. The association, however, reminded the government of its responsibility for the security and welfare of the people. On her part, the daughter of the late former civilian governor of Ondo State, Jumoke Anifowose, urged the state security to be vigilant and, “Report strange people or things in the communities to the authorities.” Anifowose, who is also a trustee of the association, also said: “A fund should be set up for whistleblowers in intelligence gathering.” Equally,  Honourable Justice Adesuyi Olateru-Olagbegi alongside the others, unanimously tasked the federal government to immediately seek assistance from foreign nations who have dealt with terrorism successfully in the past. They also called for increased funding for their hospitals to equip them for better management of emergencies, trauma and orthopedic care. The association also called for, “Massive recruitment of able-bodied youths into the military and police forces in a transparent exercise that gives fair representation to all parts of the country in recognition of our ethnic diversity.” They further requested the immediate decentralisation of the command structure of the military and the police forces.