 It was Prof. Femi Osofisan, an acclaimed literary giant, who aptly titled one of his award-winning plays, “Birthdays Are Not For Dying’’. Indeed, birthdays are supposed to be occasions for the celebration of life by the living. Birthdays are also a period when the celebrator takes stock of his or her life and feels like climbing the mountaintop to shout Hallelujah. Undoubtedly, if there is any human being who has experienced the proverbial Seventh Heaven, typical of a woman who has just safely been delivered of a baby, it is no other than Hakeem Alobo-Bakare,  the quintessential construction magnate, businessman and philanthropist. For the Lagos-born, yesterday, Saturday, June 11, 2022, would go down as the most memorable. Again, the tall and lanky man left the doors of his Lagos residence open, as he played host to his families, close friends and business associates on the occasion of his 64th birthday celebration. Although it was not so much of an elaborate celebration, many took time out of their busy schedules to celebrate with him. For those who are conversant with Nigeria’s construction sector, Alobo-Bakare’s trajectory makes a compelling read. In fact, it is believed that anyone who undertakes to compile the list of top construction players in Nigeria will be making a grave error if he or she lives out the name of this Lagos-born guru. His inspiring story, it was gathered, started a long time ago. Alobo-Bakare, over the years, has risen quietly to become a big player in his chosen career with an inspiring and intimidating resume. But success, greatness and fame were never thrust on his laps on a platter of gold. His is an intriguing story of a man who is determined to survive in life. As a young man, he had started his business on shoestrings. But his resilience, determination and I-can-do spirit have all made him soar higher and placed him in an enviable position today.  There is no gainsaying the fact that he also typifies a soul who enjoys abundant luck and the grace of God. He is celebrated by all and sundry for the simple reasons that he has made hard work, self-discipline and accountability his watchwords.