 A senior lawyer, Chief Anthony Idigbe (SAN) has called on all Christians, especially Catholics to support wholeheartedly the St. John Mary Vianney Priest Home Project. Idigbe made this call during the turning of the sod ceremony organised by the archdiocese of Lagos, held on the premises of St. Agnes church in Maryland, Lagos. Quoting from the Bible where Jesus Christ send his disciples out to minister to the people but not to take even water along, Idigbe said the life of a priest “is something similar to that of our Lord Jesus Christ. The senior advocate said the priests “have left their family and everything behind to answer God’s call to take care and led us God sheep which is not an easy task.” Idigbe, who is also the chairman of the building committee for the house of priest project, said His Grace conceived the idea of the project the Catholic Archbishop of Lagos, Dr. Alfred Adewale Martins. He said the building, which is a six-story building complex, would be completed in the next one to one and half years and would accommodate at least 30 retired priests. Also speaking at the event, Martins said that it has become something that must be done seeing that most priests have nowhere to go after retirement because they left everything to serve the lord. It is therefore important to have such a place for them. Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, who was represented by his Special Adviser on Religious Affairs, Rev. Bukola Adeleke expressed the support of the state government towards this project. Sanwo-Olu said the life span of a priest “is that of sacrifice to God first and man, living everything behind, it becomes important that we also take care of them in their old age when they can no longer support themselves.” In his opening speech, Chief Host of the event, Rev. Anthony Fadairo, appreciate all who have heard the voice of the Lord and have contributed and are still committed to doing more. Fadairo emphasised the need “to take care of the priest even in their old age. Most of them have nowhere to go by the time they are done with God’s work because virtually all their family members and friends may have gone to be with the lord and even those that are alive may not be able to be assist them.”