 •Says all ruling party governors mobilised for his election •I didn’t buy vote to win Ekiti governorship, declares gov-elect Deji Elumoye in Abuja and Victor Ogunje in Ado Ekiti President Muhammadu Buhari, yesterday, said with the victory of the All Progressives Congress (APC) at Saturday’s governorship election, in Ekiti State, things had begun to lookup for the ruling party. Buhari who spoke while receiving Ekiti State governor-elect, Biodun Oyebanji, in his office at the State House, Abuja, added that his assertions were even more evident, given how APC’s 22 governors mobilised for the party’s victory on Saturday in Ekiti. Oyebanji, who was accompanied to the Villa by the National Chairman of the APC, Senator Abdulahi Adamu, Governors Kayode Fayemi (Ekiti), Abubakar Badaru (Jigawa) and Atiku Bagudu (Kebbi) as well as a former Ekiti State governor, Niyi Adebayo, also dismissed speculations that he bought the votes that earned him victory. According to Buhari, “I loved how the APC governors mobilised, and supported you. I think the party is very lucky, and things are getting better. I congratulate the chairman, and I pray you sustain it.” The president hinted that he keenly followed the polls and was delighted with the orderly conduct, and way the electorate as well as security agencies comported themselves. The governor-elect, on his part, appreciated the president, and said the election was a referendum on the party, “and a clear, positive signal to the election in Osun, and the national one next year. APC is still the party of choice.” Oyebanji further hailed the president “for the leadership and the level playing field you provided,” adding that, he would be magnanimous in victory, as earlier advised by Buhari. Speaking with newsmen after meeting with the President, Oyebanji said neither he nor his party was involved in the widespread vote-buying alleged to have taken place during the election that he won. “I did not witness any vote-buying in the polling unit where I voted,” he said, adding that, he won the poll based on the performance of the outgoing administration in the state in which he played a prominent role. The former Secretary to the Ekiti State Government (SSG), said he canvased for votes using the record of performance of the present administration and what he had to offer the people going forward. Specifically responding to allegation of vote-buying, Oyebanji said, “Well, where I voted, I did not witness anything like that. You know, but people are entitled to their opinion. But not to their facts. “Well,  I will speak for myself. I canvassed  for votes. I had a manifesto that I unveiled to Ekiti people. And I canvassed based on that manifesto. And I’m a part of a government that has done so well. “Last time I was here, I said if performance will be an indicator for electoral success that we have nothing to fear. So, as far as we are concerned, APC, we did not involve in vote buying but we have done so well and we have a manifesto that pleases our people.” Earlier, APC National Chairman, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, ascribed the election glory to God, and pledged that same would be replicated in Osun State next month. Adamu said the allegation of vote-buying was raised by elements who were losing at the poll. “I just want to add a word or two in the response of our governor-elect on the issue of vote buying. As a patriotic Nigerian that is privileged to lead the ruling party in this country, today, I want to only appeal to the media. Please, don’t partake in portraying negative attitudes in our processes. If you do so, you are compromising. I’m sorry to say so. You’re compromising the integrity of our process as a country. “I would have preferred if the person who asked that question to say, ‘Look, in America, this is what they do in a democracy in respect to the subject matter. In the United Kingdom or France, this is what they do. This is what you are doing differently’. And please let us not be too much in the space of speculation. “I have noticed that over the last maybe four or five general elections in this country, this issue of vote buying has taken a center stage. One can only evidence what he saw. And I’m sure his excellency the governor-elect, responded in very good faith. “Some of you who asking this particular question did not go to Ekiti. You were not there. Somebody, who is losing the election flied a kite; ‘Oh no, they are buying votes and all the kind of money they have we don’t have,  that’s why I’m losing,’ and you are helping to market that opinion. “I’m only appealing to you as a fellow Nigerian and somebody, who has been in this your  trade before today. Please, let us help build this country positively.” On the dangers of APC’s ‘place holder’ for the presidential running mate not relinquishing the post, he said there is nothing to worry about. His words: “We are not in the speculative world. We are governed by the laws of the land. There’s nothing our presidential candidate has done with regards to returning his forms that is not within the confines of the law of the land. “Everything we’ve done so far we have done very carefully with legal consultation and we are cocksure. We’re not going to have the kind of speculation that you are professing at this point in time. We’re very comfortable with what we have done. It is still pessimism. However,  we are not in that school of thought yet. We don’t have to be there.” Also, in his capacity as Chairman of the Campaign Council for Ekiti, Governor Bagudu Badaru of Kebbi State, congratulated President Buhari on the successful outing, saying, “Your unending effort to reposition the party is paying off. “If we combine the votes of the candidates that came second and third, our candidate still beat them by a wide margin. APC is being daily endeared to Nigerians. Our gratitude goes to you, Mr President.” Senator, APC Leader Urge Oyebanji Not to Disappoint Ekiti The Chairman, Senate Committee on Judiciary, Human Rights and Legal Matters, Senator Michael Opeyemi Bamidele, has congratulated the governorship candidate of the APC in Ekiti State, Mr. Biodun Abayomi Oyebanji, for his victory at the just concluded governorship poll. Describing Oyebanji’s victory as well-deserved, the federal Lawmaker said both the All Progressives Congress (APC) and its governorship candidate were worthy of the massive votes of the electorate in the state. Bamidele explained that, “going by the unmatched performance of the APC-led Fayemi administration in Ekiti State, the giant strides of the Buhari administration in the areas of infrastructure growth, diversification of the economy, the consistent crusade against corruption, the enduring fight against insecurity coupled with the wide acceptability and popularity of Biodun Abayomi Oyebanji among Ekiti people, APC’s victory in the just concluded poll is very much expected.” While thanking Ekiti people for coming out en masse to vote for APC and its candidate, Bamidele urged them to continue to stand by the party to enable it consolidate on its progressive strides and to further take the state to greater heights. He, therefore, assured the Ekiti people that they should not entertain any fear, saying with Oyebanji as governor, Ekiti people were in safe hands, because he had known Oyebanji over the years as a well-focussed, dedicated and reliable patriot with listening ears. Also, another APC chieftain, Dr Olusegun Osinkolu, has rejoiced with the governor-elect on his victory at the Ekiti governorship poll. Osinkolu said the victory should further rededicate the APC and the governor-elect for more rewarding democracy dividends to Ekiti voters, for deeming the ruling party worthy of being voted for to rule the state beyond Governor Kayode Fayemi’s tenure. The former   Buhari/Osinbajo Chief campaigner in Ekiti said this in his congratulatory message issued in Ado Ekiti, yesterday, felicitating Oyebanji on his victory in the keenly contested electoral battle.