 David-Chyddy Eleke in Awka The Igbo apex socio-cultural organisation, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, has backed the presidential bid of former Governor of Anambra State, Mr. Peter Obi, saying his candidacy has brought a new dimension to the Nigerian politics. The Vice President of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Damian Okeke-Ogene, stated this yesterday in Nanka, Orumba North Local Government Area, Anambra State, while receiving the executive members of the state chapter of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) in his home town. Okeke-Ogene said Obi’s presidential quest was no longer an Igbo agenda, but a youth agenda, and a mass movement, as he has proven to be the most qualified of all the people running for the position. Addressing the leadership of NUJ led by Dr. Odogwu Emeka Odogwu, Okeke-Ogene said the recently concluded primary elections of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) were regrettable, as the political class in the South-east frustrated efforts to work for an Igbo president. He said: “The unexpected emergence of Peter Obi as the presidential candidate of the Labour Party (LP) has brought a new dimension in Nigeria politics. “He is a candidate that gained immediate national and international acceptance. This is not because of presidency of Igbo extraction or rotational presidency, neither is it because of ethnic or religious reasons, rather, it is because of Obi’s stance on those who want to enthrone a new political and social order that will end recycling of leadership that has become a burden to Nigerians. “His emergence has engendered a mass movement that will have a similar if not stronger impact like the #EndSARS protest, because the people see in him a candidate that will evolve a new Nigeria, with the capability to change the way things are being done by upholding progressive ideology that is not based on tribe, religion or political leaning.” The vice president, while speaking on the failure of the South-east governors to form a common front in both the PDP and APC on the election of a candidate, said it was regrettable. According to him, “The political class in the Southeast frustrated efforts of Ohanaeze Ndigbo in championing the cause for presidency of Igbo extraction. “It is sad to note that all the delegates at the conventions were more or less controlled by the leadership of their various political parties which was reflected in their voting pattern and was a slap on the expectations of the South-east.” The group, however, commended Governor Dave Umahi of Ebonyi State for being the only aspirant from the zone who held his forth, while commending him for fighting gallantly during the APC presidential primary election. Referring to Umahi’s recent attack on Ohanaeze, and disowning its President, Prof George Obiozor, Okeke-Ogene urged him not to be disenchanted, but to calm down so as not to further divide the Igbo nation with utterances that are divisive. He called on the elders of Ohanaeze to send a delegation to Ebonyi State to mediate between Umahi andthe group to avoid a breakdown of a relationship that has been built over the years.