 Michael Olugbode in Abuja Nigerian Ambassador to the Holy See (Vatican), Paul Adikwu, has advised Nigerians against taking a trip out of the country without the prerequisite qualification to get a distinguished career or breakthrough in the host country. Speaking to journalists in Abuja yesterday, the Ambassador lamented that there were several Nigerians in Rome and elsewhere in Europe touting without any reasonable source of living. He said, “It is sad that many of the youths believe that the grass is greener elsewhere and travelled through the desert crossing the Mediterranean Sea into Europe with the belief that there is a Golden Fleece but later get disappointed when they find out they cannot find any reasonable job.” He said even the so-called menial jobs are taken up by Europeans leaving almost nothing for non-professional migrants to take up. He noted that in Rome even to pass a test to qualify as a truck driver is very tough. “Nigerians to have a double thought before embarking on the trip to Europe as there are many opportunities in the country which they would see if they look focused and deep enough,” the envoy said. He equally advised Nigerians to stop describing the country negatively, insisting that every country has faced or perhaps still facing some challenges and this should not be a reason to be unpatriotic. Adikwu said, “It is very unpatriotic for any citizen of Nigeria to address his country as a zoo, among other descriptions,” insisting that “no matter what we all owe it a duty to market Nigeria in good light to the rest of the world.” The Ambassador at a recent event where he addressed clergymen in the Vatican, had said, “All nations have their problems, some are self made, others by nature and still others could be imposed on them: Nation-building is not an easy task. “However, I would want to say that Nigeria has witnessed meaningful development in the past few years despite the security challenges the government is facing and the COVID-19 setback. “Indeed, our nation is at the threshold of technological advancements. This is evident in the various digital progresses witnessed in the country. Agriculture is being mechanised and the vehicle assembly plants that have come to stay in the country are just a few examples. “This is not the time to rock the boat. I need to say that, as priests and religious people, I believe you all have a specialised role to play not only in the life of the Nigerian society here in Rome/ltaly but in Nigeria also. A priest is somebody who has been trained and has seen it all. And that is why the vicissitude of life is no longer a challenge to him. You are on a higher pedestal to lead and direct according to the principles of Christ. “As priests and with the lay faithful here in Rome, you all are ambassadors of Nigeria here in the diaspora. It is quite unfortunate that there are a few criminal elements out here who are bent on tarnishing the name of our dear country and seeking in all ways to destroy not only the image of the country but to equally destabilise it. It would interest you to know that in the course of my assignment over here, virtually all the Italians and diplomats I have interacted with speak highly of Nigeria and so many, if given the opportunity, will want to go over to Nigeria. “There is no nation that is immune to these crises but nationals of other nations are not prone to this destructive tendency of tarnishing the image of their country, outside its shores. As shepherds of the people, your major assignment is to preach peace, love and reconciliation in the face of these problems, which your training has fully equipped you for.”