Fidelis David in Akure The presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, has donated N10 million to the victims of June 5 terror attack on St. Francis Catholic Church, Owo, in Ondo State. Atiku, who paid a condolence visit to Owo town, condemned in strong terms, the killings of the armless worshipers. Atiku was represented by the candidate of PDP in the last governorship election in Ondo State, Eyitayo Jegede (SAN), and members of the State Working Committee of the party. Speaking at the Olowo palace, the PDP candidate told Oba Ajibade Gbadegesin Ogunoye that the present security situation across the country is a call to duty for everyone to be more vigilant, and security conscious, adding that the issue of insecurity is not about politics but Nigerians must stand with people who will ensure peace and tranquility across the country. He said: “I am here on behalf of my party, National Chairman, Senator Iyorchia Ayu,the candidate of our party in the forthcoming presidential election, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, and the entire PDP members in Ondo State. “Atiku Abubakar has directed that a sum of N10 million should be released for the treatment of the victims immediately. We are here to condole with you on the terror attack on St Francis Catholic, Owa-Iuwa Street, Owo. We pray that such a thing does not happen in our land again. “We cannot continue like this. This is a call to duty for everyone of us to be more vigilant and conscious and must be ready to protect ourselves.This is not about politics. We must stand with people who will ensure that we are out of this situation we find ourselves in this country.” While welcoming the delegation, the Olowo of Owo, Oba Ajibade Gbadegesin Ogunoye, appreciated the PDP presidential candidate for the donation. Oba Ogunoye said: “When the incident happened, you sent a message and the message was soothing and it was balm to us. “Owo is a land of peace and we are accommodating. Nobody has ever conquered us and nobody will conquer us. We are already taking steps to ensure that the act does not happen again.”