Adedayo Akinwale in Abuja The Tinubu Campaign Organisation (TCO) has said the manifesto of the All Progressives Congress Presidential (APC) candidate, Senator Bola Tinubu, being circulated on social media was not the official campaign manifesto of the presidential candidate. In a statement issued yesterday by the Director of Media and Communication, TCO, Mr. Bayo Onanuga, it noted that it was merely a draft proposal and suggestions on the programme he should implement, when elected in February 2023. He said  Tinubu, in consultation with the party, experts in various fields and a broad section of the populace, through empirical and evidence-based approach, was working on an all-embracing manifesto that would be presented to Nigerians before the official campaign begins in September. While acknowledging that the manifesto in circulation was prepared by some senior associates of the APC presidential candidate, Onanuga said the document was a private initiative, which Tinubu had not personally endorsed and accepted. He said: “I want to place it on record that the manifesto being circulated via social media platforms and already published by a section of the mainstream media is not the official Manifesto of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and All Progressives Congress for 2023 general election. “While our presidential candidate appreciates the spirit and efforts of his associates that produced the document being passed around mostly on WhatsApp, we want to clearly state that the document is an unofficial document and Tinubu cannot be held accountable on any of the issues raised in the document. “The presidential candidate and APC are currently working on an all-embracing manifesto that will inspire the confidence of Nigerians. When the official policy document of Tinubu is ready it will be formally presented to Nigerians and our candidate will be in a position to defend every word that will be contained therein. “We appreciate the interest and enthusiasm of Nigerians to know about the programmes and policy options Asiwaju Tinubu will pursue in government when elected.”