 Nigeria Customs on Sunday night emerged the champions of the 2022 Mark D’Ball Men’s Basketball Tournament, after inflicting a 61-55 defeat on new Abuja franchaise Mo Heat. The Border men strolled to the Title in the final of the Elite 8 Tournament played at the Indoor Sports Hall of the MKO Abiola National Stadium in Abuja. D’Tigers player, Ibe Agu, who captained Customs, contributed 17 points, two fewer than his team mate Michael Daramola whose 19 points were matched by Mo Heat’s top scorer, Bright Akhuetie. Owen Michael shot 13 points for the Mo Heat who literarily lost their way in the last quarter. Going into the finalé watched by a capacity crowd and graced by eminent personalities,  Mo Heat were unbeaten and were favourites to take the title, having already edged the Customs side in the build of to the final. The first quarter ended 15-15, with both teams fighting hard in the second quarter and even at the end of the 3rd quarter, it was still a tight game at 47 baskets apiece. Nigeria Customs however started the last quarter with more zeal and purpose and pulled away despite a late challenge mounted by Mo Heats to win the final by clear six points. The victory ensured that they emulated their ladies’ folks, who also won the women’s tournament played towards the end of 2021. The defeat was for Mo Heat, their very first and only crash in the 32-team tournament. Kanyinsola Odufuwa was top scorer with 25 points while Wisdom Anyaoha had 17 dunks with Gombe Bulls winning the Third Placed game that preceded the final. They won by beating Kano Pillars 67-62 to take the bronze medal and N1 million prize money. The Bulls had also prevailed 63-57 against the Sai Masu Gida when both sides met earlier in the final 8. Their  undoing was over-relying on veteran captain, Abubakar Usman whose 14 points and 2 assists fell short of unsettling the Bulls from Gombe.  Bulls triumphed despite not having their head coach on the bench. The Winners, Nigeria Customs got a N2 million cheque as top Prize Money while the losing finalist, Mo Heat, received N1.5 million. Meanwhile, Senator Dino Melaye donated additional N300,000 to the winners with the runners up also smiling home with N200,000 from the former Kogi State lawmaker. Melaye rated the championships as topnotch and the best basketball competition in Sub-Sahara Africa. The other four teams that contested for honours in the final-8 include; HotCoal Ballers of Abuja, FCT HardRockers, Kwara Falcons of Ilorin and Delta Force of Asaba.