 A non-governmental organisation, Live Abundantly has called for the protection of children right against all forms of abuse during a “Children’s Awareness Initiative” it organised in commemoration of International Children’s Day, 2022 The organisation urged government to prioritise children’s security, nutrition and education in its policy formulation, in line with the elements of Sustainable Development Goals, SDGs. The event themed, “Building a better Future” had in attendance children from across primary and secondary schools in Lagos state, teachers, relevant government and security agencies and state actors, among other stakeholders, who enlightened children on ways and manners to approach issues that come their way. The Founder, Mirabel Centre, Itoro Eze-Anaba, enlightened children to speak up in the case of any violence and reject threats. She stated that such was necessary to aid prosecution as well as deter other criminal elements. On her part, Founder of Live Abundantly, Dr Ama Onyerinma emphasized the need to uphold children’s right, adding that no stone should be left unturned in securing children’s future. “This involves all stakeholders including parent, teachers, schools, caretakers, government and the community. They must all unite towards a greater and secured future for our children,” Onyerinma said. Also present at the event, the Permanent Secretary, Lagos State Ministry of Education, Abayomi Abolaji reaffirmed government’s commitment to quality education. He assured that government was working round the clock to attend to educational challenges in the state, adding that the state priority is to produce children who are well rounded academically, physically and morally. He said, “Government is not unaware of challenges of children, and as part of our responses so far, we have rehabilitated 1499 schools across the state and we are not resting on our oars. Presently, Lagos has zero tolerance for out-of-school children and we are pulling all stops with the policy “Leave no Child behind” to end the menace.”