 The West Africa Automotive Show (WAAS) has afforded Nigerians the opportunity to explore high quality automotive parts and the latest innovative accessories for less from across the world. The vehicle parts and accessories including lubricant oils are for cars, trucks, buses, motorbikes and commercial vehicles in Nigeria and the entire West Africa while also furnishing Nigerians with direct contact to high and mid-level wholesalers. Speaking to THISDAY at the second edition of the exhibition, the International Trade and Business Development Manager for Aksoy Nigeria, one of the major exhibitors, Gokhan Kalayli, highlighted the need for high quality lubricant oils. “Substandard engine oil places engine life and the lives of occupants of vehicles at risk. We encourage Nigerians to purchase lubricants with a good reputation and brand accreditation.” According to Kalayli,Aksoy Holding, through WAAS, is here to bring high quality products in form of lubricant oils where people pay less for good quality. To further sustain its market with vehicle users in the country and the region, the manager outlined their plans on partnerships with Nigerians. He said: “We want to cooperate with partners here in Nigeria and our distinguished customers who want high quality products.” Through the synergy with Aksoy Holding, partners who use their oils will be motivated with performance, less cost on maintenance, and longer lifetime of their engines. Although Kalayli commended West Africa for its business opportunities, he acknowledged that the economic growth and the dynamics of Nigeria informed their choice of expanding their business from Nigeria to other ECOWAS communities. With the technology in engines and automotive cars changing by the day, the manager admitted, “We are moving to the new hybrid cars business,” he added. For Kalayli, everybody wants to reduce cost and improve performance of equipment or cars. This, he emphasised, means they need high quality oils or lubricants for use. The 46 exhibitors at the 2022 WAAS trickled in from the UK, US, United Arab Emirates (UAE), Morocco, Germany, Egypt, Japan, Pakistan, South Africa, Ghana, Iran, Indonesia, Switzerland, India, Poland, and Nigeria.