 Adedayo Akinwale The All Progressives Congress (APC) has set up 18 sub-committees  ahead of the party’s special convention/presidential primary scheduled to hold between June 6th and 8th. The National Publicity Secretary of the party, Mr Felix Morka disclosed this in a statement issued yesterday. He said the Governor of Gombe State,  Inuwa Yahaya, would Chair the budget committee, while the Minister of Finance,  Zainab Ahmed would be the co-chair. Morka added that Finance and Logistics committee would be chaired by Governor of Lagos State, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, while Accreditation and Decoration committee would be chaired  by Dapo Abiodun, Governor of Ogun State He noted that the Governor of Ondo State, Rotimi Akeredolu, Security and Compliance, while the former Minister of Interior, Gen. Abdulrahman Dambazau (rtd) would be a Co-Chair: 5. Election Planning – H.E. Abubakar Atiku Bagudu, Governor of Kebbi State Co-Chair: H.E. Hope Uzodinma, Governor of Imo State 6. Transportation – H.E. (Dr.) Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, Governor of Kano State Deputy: Dr. Ramatu Tijani Aliyu, Minister of State for the Federal Capital Territory 7. Accommodation – H.E. Babagana Umara Zulum, Governor of Borno State Co-Chair: H.E. Gboyega Oyetola, Governor of Osun State 8. Media and Publicity- H.E. Abdullahi Sule, Governor of Nasarawa State 9. Medicals – Dr. Chris Ngige, Minister of Labour and Employment Co-Chair: Prof. Isaac Folorunso Adewole, former Minister of Health 10. Legal: Abubakar Malami SAN, Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice 11. Venue and Site Servicing: H.E. Bello Muhammad Matawalle, Governor of Zamfara State Co-Chair: Mohammed Musa Bello, Minister of the Federal Capital Territory 12. Election Appeal – H.E. Mai Mala Buni, Governor of Yobe State 13. Hospitality and Welfare – H.E. Simon Lalong, Governor of Plateau State Co-Chair: Hajiya Sadiya Umar Farouq, Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development 14. Protocols –  H.E. Aminu Bello Masari, Governor of Katsina State 15. Digital Communications – H.E. AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq, Governor of Kwara State 16. Pre-Convention/Management/ Rapporteur – H.E. Mallam Nasir Ahmad el-Rufai, Governor of Kaduna State Deputy: Dame Pauline Tallen, Minister of Women Affairs 17. Presidential Screening Appeal – H.E. Abubakar Sani Bello, Governor of Niger State Co-Chair: Rt. Hon. Ahmed Idris Wase, Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives 18. Accreditation of Diplomats – H.E. Ovie Omo-Agege, Deputy President of the Senate Co-Chair: Geoffrey  Onyeama, Minister for Foreign Affairs