 Umueri community in Anambra East Local Government Area has commended the Governor of Anambra State, Professor Chukwuma Soludo, for his prompt response to their call for the rehabilitation of the Umueri General Hospital. The President General of Umueri General Assembly, Mr. Johnny Chukwudi Metchie, gave the commendation yesterday in a statement he issued after receiving the Anambra State Commissioner for Health, Dr. Afam Obidike, and the newly appointed Chief Medical Director of Umueri General Hospital, Dr. Chinenye Johnpeter Obi. Metchie described Soludo as a ‘Talk and Do’ governor and thanked him for commencing work on the hospital without delay. He said: “By this time last week, Umueri General Hospital was like a project abandoned for ages. The facilities were overgrown by weeds while the structures were dilapidated. But the Commissioner for Health who paid us a courtesy visit at the instance of the governor visited the hospital and saw it in a very sorry state. “The commissioner took our complaints back to the governor and we can now see their promise being fulfilled. “As at this morning, the new Chief Medical Director have not only resumed work at the hospital but has engaged people to clear the hospital’s surroundings of unwanted green weed. To that extent, some life has returned to the highly equipped general hospital. “The new CMD is also restarting the laboratory section to ensure that our people would not have to travel miles away from Umueri for their laboratory checks. This is what we see and say that a man hit the ground running. Gov. Soludo is indeed the solution to a lot of our problems in Anambra. “This latest development has left all the people of Umueri and our neighboring communities in a happy mood. We promise to maintain and secure government properties in the hospital as we do to our own properties.” Metchie also used the opportunity to request that Governor Soludo should deploy nurses and other health workers to the Umueri General Hospital to ensure all-round functioning of the facilities. “Your Excellency, because we know that you stand for perfection, we plead that you provide us with nurses and nurses’ quarter to ensure that there are nurses in the hospital always. “And to put a stop to the grasses that overgrow the hospital infrastructures, we plead that you asphalt the hospital’s external floors for us. “We trust in your administration to bring Umueri General Hospital back to glory and enhance quality life for Umueri community and the people of Omambala region in general,” Metchie said.