 The Professional Golfers’ Association (PGA) of Nigeria has made another history since 53 years as it has teed off the 2022/23 Qualifying School academic programme for male and female students simultaneously. The development was made known to SOKOnnect yesterday in a release signed by Uchenna Ezebuiro, Director Operations, PGA of Nigeria after its earlier Executive Committee meeting declaring the school open. The resumption of a activities according to the release was from June 1, 2022 to terminate in May 2023, just as the course work has been expanded to meet the global set standard; it reads in parts: “The Executive Committee of the PGA of Nigeria at its recent meeting has declared open the qualifying School 2022/23 session with effect from June 1, 2022. “In this regard, we write to update individuals, corporate organisations about the programme as one of our numerous steps at opening career path for Nigerian youth in golf as well as growing and developing the game in the country,” it said. Recall the PGA only in May 22-27, 2022 in Yenagoa, Bayelsa State capital concluded the Qualifying School examination exclusively for lady golfers, some of who are now professional golfers having satisfied the required standard in character and learning. Thus the release affirmed further, “This session will admit male and female golfers into the School towards producing quality and more enterprising PGA Professionals; PGA Certified Golf Coaches and PGA Certified Course Maintenance Specialists. The session will run from June 2022 to May 2023 with very wide and deep contents that will reflect reality of the present time in the golfing world.” It is on record that the PGA of Nigeria is also lagging behind in skilled, technical and administrative personals which has resulted in shortfalls in lady professionals over time, but it now ready to change the narrative. Hence it added, “The PGA of Nigeria is aiming to use the programme to produce the manpower needed for the growth of the game and consequently lead to employment opportunities for the youth in the country.” It concluded that the association will continue to seek for a robust working relationship with relevant stakeholders in  golf sport to move the game forward in Nigeria.