 Fidelis David in Akure The Commanders of the South West Security Network (SWSN), codenamed Amotekun Corps, have assured the people of the region that it would synergise towards avoiding a repeat of the attack on St Francis Catholic Church in Owo, Ondo State, where 40 worshippers were killed recently. The commanders gave the assurance while speaking with journalists in Akure when they came to condole with the state and Christian family in Owo over the gruesome killings. They included the Corps Commander, Ekiti State Amotekun, General Joe Komolafe (rtd); Colonel Olayinka Olayanju (rtd) (Oyo); Retired Police Commissioner, David Ajibola Akinremi (Ogun), and Brigadier General Isah Aderibigbe (rtd), Osun State. The Ondo State Commander and Chairman of the Corps, Mr. Adetunji Adeleye, who spoke on their behalf, said the corps assured the people that the perpetrators of the evil act would be arrested. He said: “We are also here to express our condolences to the families of those who lost their loved ones in the attack, and we pray that the Almighty God grant their souls eternal rest. As a team, we are here on a condolence visit over this unfortunate incident and irreparable loss and also to assess the security situation and proffer our own solution with a view to ensuring that a repeat of this does not happen anywhere in the South-west region again. “We feel very sad about this attack because these ‘animals’ invaded this ever peaceful town and massacred defenceless worshippers. It is a sad moment for us. To the Ondo State people, we want to reassure them that the executives of all the western states are determined to continue to ensure that the security of your lives and property are guaranteed. “We want you all to be rest assured that even the federal government and all the security agencies are not leaving any stone unturned in apprehending the perpetrators of this dastardly act and ensuring that we prevent a repeat of it,” he stated. Adeleye, who is also the Special Adviser to the Ondo State Governor on Security Matters, appealed to the residents to be vigilant, saying security is everybody business, and should not be limited to the law enforcement agencies alone. According to him, “We need information everywhere to assist us in apprehending these people and prevent reoccurrence of this type of incident.” He, however, thanked the governments of the region for their immense contributions and supports towards ensuring that the corps respond swiftly and checkmate criminal activities in the region. Other commanders, who spoke, described the prevention of further attack as a collective will of the South-west states of Nigeria. “It is very unfortunate that some criminals think they can test our will and determination that we enjoy safe environment in the Southwest. We want to assure them that we will do everything within our power to ensure that they are not just brought to book, but that any other person or group planning similar attack in any part of the region will have us to contend with,” they said. Also, the Bishop of Ondo Catholic Diocese, Most Rev. Jude Arogundade, who received the Corp Commanders in his residence, thanked them for the visit and charged them to fish out the perpetrators of the act. In the same vein, the Deji of Akure and Chairman, Ondo State Council of Obas, Oba Aladetoyinbo Ogunlade Aladelusi, and the Olowo of Owo, Oba Ajibade Ogunoye, commended the Amotekun Commanders for effectively securing the Southwest region.