Iyke Bede A week before the official release of ‘Bahd’, the highly anticipated fifth solo studio album from Folarin Falana, famed as Falz, the rapper uploaded an unusual cover art portraying a seminude rifle reflection of his clothed alter-ego, exposing his chiselled torso. The image was an indication of the sleaze he was about to unleash visually. But beyond his literal intentions, it offered a peek into the album’s sonic and lyrical textures. Surprisingly, the ‘This Is Nigeria’ social activist veered a great degree off the rap genre that accounted for a majority of his discography. He follows in the footsteps of American rapper Kanye West’s outside the box ‘808 & Heartbreak’ album where he leaned more towards the R’n’B and pop universe. “I have done all sorts of music, genre-wise, and at this point, I don’t have anything to prove. I am at the point where I want to be more experimental with my sound,” Falz revealed on the eve of the release at a listening party held at The Civic Centre, Lagos, with select members of the media, music critics, and social media influencers in attendance. “It is an album where I am being emotional, I am being vulnerable, and at the same time being sexy,” he added Stocked with 12 tracks, the lyrics of the tracks reveal themes of love, lust, commitment, and seduction to mention a few. Also, a good proportion of the tracklist leans towards the mid-tempo and slow-tempo region, where Falz either sings or sing-raps. Conversely, the 2019 produced ‘Gentleman’ seemingly became the juncture where he returns to his rap roots while professing his commitment to his love interest over rhythmic beats. Although ‘Bahd’ is heavy on R’n’B and house music, it reserves ‘Parampe’ as the album’s afrobeats highlight that draws artistic direction from the Kalakuta-originated afrobeat. ‘Bahd’ doesn’t skimp on collaborations, though. It attracted bigwigs like Tiwa Savage (‘Beautiful Sunflower’), Timaya (‘Inside’), The Cavemen (‘Woman’), and Chike (‘Knee Down’). Describing the album’s recording process as being an organic one, Falz mentioned that each collaborator had full creative control over their musical inputs. “I was in a recording camp, so I invited Tiwa Savage to come to listen through the collection of sounds that have been created. She heard ‘Beautiful Sunflower’, and immediately said ‘Yes, this is the one.’ She was effortless with her take.” We have witnessed Falz’s different personas, each one unveiling like layers of an onion. On ‘Bahd’, another Falz era is upon us, and he’s intentional about it.