 Hammed Shittu in Ilorin The Kwara State First Lady and initiator Ajike Wellbeing Foundation, Mrs. Olufolake AbdulRazaq, has urged students across the 16 local government areas of the state to shun all forms of social vices like hard drugs and drug abuse that may likely hinder their future academic attainment. She implored the students to be up and doing in their determination to have quality education that would make them become future leaders and also become role models for others. Mrs. AbdulRazaq made the appeal in Ilorin yesterday  during the commencement of the  second phase of her pet project, ‘Catch Them Young in Kwara’. The project is in line with her programme of giving right upbringing to the child and educating young students in the state’s secondary schools on the evil effects of social vices such as hard drugs, drug abuse, child trafficking, truancy, examination malpractice and cultism among others. The First Lady who was ably represented at the event by Coordinator of the AA Olufolake Support Group, Mr. Mutalib AbdulRazaq, explained that the programme has become important and worthy considering the challenges being faced in our society affecting many kids which could later threaten the state and country at large. According to her, in order to make the programme a huge success in the state, schools were selected across the three senatorial districts of the state. She was emphatic that she visited the most schools so as to educate and sensitise the affected students in order to enable them to be more alive to their academic goals. The First Lady noted further that the programme which started in 2019, had awakened the consciousness of students of secondary schools in the state by creating awareness on the danger and implications of involvement of youths in social vices. She therefore assured that her pet project ‘Catch Them Young in Kwara’ would leave no stone unturned at making life bearable for the teeming students so as to make them the future leaders of the state. The governor’s wife said that the schools visited so far include Kwara Polytechnic Secondary School, Ilorin and Queens School Ilorin. Others are Government Secondary School, Fate, Ilorin, Barakat Secondary School, Ilorin Ansarul Islam Secondary School, Ilorin and JSS Gerewu Ilorin West.