 Dike Onwuamaeze Nigeria Breweries Plc (NB) recently empowered the consumers of its premium brand, Goldberg, in Lagos State at a star-studded Goldberg’s Takeover Party which was held recently at the Ejigbo Mini Stadium. Residents of Ejigbo and environs were clearly thrilled throughout the night of enjoyment put together by the NB for its favourite lager beer, Goldberg as they were treated to a night of unforgettable enjoyment. Moreover, the consumers, also dubbed the ỌMỌLÚÀBÍ, also went home with cash and other prizes after participating in the live raffle draws. Among those that were recognised and rewarded during the Takeover Party were DJ Selek and DJ Star that received cash rewards of N600,000 and N400,000 respectively. The Brand Manager of Goldberg, Mr. Oluyemi Ekundayo, said: “We are glad to be home in Lagos having gone round the different regions in the country. We are here to appreciate our consumers for their patronage and give them a platform to enjoy a fun atmosphere. Lagosians are very hard-working people, working round the clock to earn a living and we are here to recognise, celebrate and encourage them to keep at it.  We are also rewarding the DJs as a way of empowering them to push their careers forward. We are very confident that they will go far in their career.” During the night, a Nigerian Singer and Songwriter, Zlatan Ibile, was the highlight of the show as he delivered an electrifying performance alongside fast-rising star, Bella Shmurda and popular Nigerian Dancer, Poco Lee. The Afro-pop recording artiste and performer, Mr. Adekunle Temitope, popularly known as Small Doctor, also reaffirmed his position as the king on the streets as he entertained and engaged the crowd who could not help but sing and dance along. Nigerian singer, Jaywon also serenaded the audience with a sense of nostalgia as he performed some of hit songs. The YBNL’s Official Disc Jockey, DJ Enimoney and host DJ, DJ X Smart, also entertained the excited audience with their dexterity on the turntables, dishing out a mix of both traditional and modern tunes. Karkarkey Percussion, the Ayanwale of Goldberg, also delivered an impressive performance with the talking drum alongside one of South West Nigeria’s eulogists, Asabi Elewi. The DJs contest featured two of Lagos’ disc jockeys, DJ Selex and DJ Star Boi going head to head, dishing out different tunes for the listening pleasure of the audience. The Goldberg Takeover Party Lagos is the fifth edition to hold this year 2022 after Ibadan, Warri, Akure and Abeokuta hosted the event earlier.