 Vanessa Obioha At the second edition of the Trendupp Awards, Mr Macaroni, Miss Techy, Lasisi Elenu, and Kie Kie emerged as winners. The awards, which recognises and celebrates influencers and content creators, was held on Sunday, June 12, at The Monarch Event Centre, Lagos, Nigeria. The event was hosted by the social media influencer and TV host Bukunmi Adeaga Ilori fondly known as Kie Kie. The 2022 edition aimed at recognizing and applauding the outstanding work of influencers, content creators, brands and organisations in Nigeria for their immense contribution to the social media space and encouraging these audacious individuals and organizations. All 16 winners across each category were not only presented with their gold statuettes but also received cash prizes of $1000 each, while the winner of the Emerging Force category (the only voting category), ShankComics received a cash prize of $1,500. The highlight of the award show was the unveiling of Mr. Macaroni as the Force of Influence, making him the influencer and content creator who commanded the highest influence in the Nigerian social media space between March 2021 and March 2022. As a content creator, his political satire has become an easy laugh endearing him to the hearts of many as “Mr freaky freaky” and his catchphrases “Ooin” and “You are doing well”, that fast became the lingua franca. Beyond that, his influence transcends the online space with his involvement in the #EndSARS and #SoreSoke movements. CEO, Trendupp Africa, Tiwalola Olanubi, Jnr., at the ceremony reiterated the vision of the awards. “Two years ago, we saw the confidence, fearlessness, commitment and creativity Nigerians were putting into the content they shared and we were truly inspired. So, we started building Trendupp; a platform designed to reward them faster and better for their craft, but as we did that, we also noticed another void-they were not getting their flowers, they needed to be celebrated,” he said. Other winners include Aproko Doctor, Zeelicious Foods, ShankComics, Lush Hair, R0dn3y, Pamilerin, Enioluwa, Jamesbrown, Mark Angel, Tunde Onakoya, Amazing Klef and Akinfaminu.