 Udora Orizu Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, his Edo State counterpart, Mr. Godwin Obaseki and the Minority Leader of the House of Representatives, Hon Ndudi Elumelu have commiserated with the Chairman of THISDAY Newspapers and ARISE News Channel, Prince Nduka Obaigbena, over the passing of his mother, Princess Margaret Obaigbena, at the age of 88. Sanwo-Olu, in a condolence letter he personally signed, on behalf of the government and people of Lagos State, commiserated with the entire Obaigbena Royal Family of Owa Kingdom. According to the governor, Mama’s passing was a stark reminder of the ephemerality of life, but also proof that despite the fleetingness of our existence as mere mortals, those who live for others are never forgotten. “As an astute public health practitioner, Mama brought a legacy of piety, love and empathy to her professional calling and by extension, the way and manner she lived her life. Mama Obaigbena was an exemplary mother to all and a devout Christian who espoused the values of humility and kindness throughout her lifetime. “She inspired all who encountered her to embrace godliness with contentment, which was the hallmark of her life. Mama successfully raised her children to become resourceful and courageous Nigerians who have consistently made their mark in their chosen careers while contributing their quota to the growth and socio-economic development of Nigeria,” the governor added. He urged the Obaigbena family to take solace in the beautiful memories shared with the deceased over the years. On his part, Obaseki, in a statement, said the matriarch of the Obaigbena family was a gracious, kind and compassionate woman, who cared deeply for her family and instilled strong values in all who encountered her. The governor noted, “I commiserate with the Chairman and Editor-in-Chief of THISDAY Newspapers and Chairman of ARISE TV Network, Prince Nduka Obaigbena, over the passing of his mother, Princess Margaret Obaigbena, who passed at the age of 88. “Princess Obaigbena was a gracious, kind and compassionate woman, who cared deeply for her family and instilled strong values in all who encountered her.” The statement further read: “She was a source of inspiration to many and was always available to provide guidance and direction to all who sought advice from her. “Princess Obaigbena had an illustrious career as a nurse, rising to become the Chief Nursing Officer of the defunct Bendel State Government and later Delta State Government. As a caregiver, she was diligent and committed to her work, providing excellent service to her community. “She will be remembered for her compassionate spirit, good nature and love for others.” Elumelu in a condolence message also commiserated with members of the Royal Family of Owa Kingdom and the government and people of Delta State. He described the late Margaret as an exceptionally illustrious daughter of Delta State, a gracious personality and unique epitome of courage, humility, industry, motherly love, selfless service and faith in God, who touched the lives of everyone that came in contact with her in many special ways. According to him, as a Chief Nursing Officer and later Special Assistant to three Governors of Delta State, the late Princess Obaigbena displayed an outstanding commitment to duty and left an unbeaten legacy of selfless service towards the wellbeing of the people, Nigerians and humanity at large. Elumelu said, “May I convey my deepest condolences to you, the Chairman/Editor-in-Chief of the Thisday/Arise Group, Prince Nduka Obaigbena, over the death of your loving mother and Matriarch of the Obaigbena family, Princess Margaret Obaigbena (Nee Usifoh). The death of Princess Obaigbena is a big blow not only to the Obaigbenas and the Owa Royal Family but also to the entire people of Delta State. Indeed, her exit, even at the age of 88 is very painful to us and we will miss her wise counsel, prayers and soothing presence. “Nevertheless, we take solace in the fact that she lived fulfilled, finished the race as a devout servant of God with many resounding legacies including bequeathing to us a patriot and statesman in your good self. “I must salute your courage particularly in effectively and fearlessly deploying the THISDAY/Arise Group as the voice of the voiceless in fighting for justice, fairness and demand for entrenchment of Rule of Law, accountability and good governance in our country.” “I charge you to remain steadfast in this course for the task ahead. I deeply commiserate with you and pray that the Holy Spirit will continue to comfort you, the entire Obaigbena family as well as the Government and people of Delta State in faith that the Faithful Departed, rests in joy in His Glorious Bosom. Be Comforted and God bless.”