Muhammadu Buhari: A Leopard’s Permanent Spot I’m hardly surprised by any news about President Buhari. Na my man. I think he is the only consistent politician in recent times. Look at that statement he made recently about his successor perfectly fits with his persona. In case you missed it, he was reported to have said that since he allowed governors to choose their successors, he too should be allowed to do the same . After all, what is good for the goose is also good for the gander. Abi no be so them teach us for nursery school. This statement is so revolting and so low, especially for a leader who at this point should be thinking of his place in history rather than continue to roll in the murky mud of crass politicking. How he expects the APC and by extension the rest of us to allow only one man to decide who will succeed him in the midst of this carnage really confounds me. Maybe the urge for self-preservation post his ‘regime’ is the driving force. But shebi he said he is incorruptible, so there is nothing to be afraid of. He should therefore desist from making statements that will make Dino wear starched agbada with his big bele and attempt to make a presidential speech. Me, I am now daring President Buhari to try himself by not appointing a successor if truly he has nothing to fear after his regime. This is the real test my Lord. Abubakar Atiku:  The Hun Strikes Back My people, this one surprised me o. After the sad Deborah issue and his missteps, I had written him off. I had even written on this page that he should just go into oblivion. But thanks to a warped and jingly system, the man bounced back to glory. In a system that is not driven by any principles but horse trading among gamblers, you can always emerge if you play your cards very well. Mr. Atiku is adept in this game. He is a master gambler and a king in the subterfuge that is Nigeria’s dark politics. He emerged first among a band of intellectual midgets which even had my Governor, Mr. Udom Emmanuel, sitting pretty with 100 per cent of Akwa Ibom delegates votes and seven other people whose ‘money no complete’ for the other side. Was the issue health, agric or empowerment during the convention? Very far from it. When you watch serious country primaries, you will marvel at the debates, the engagements and the openness of it all. Our own ugly people will be wearing aso-ebi with their candidates’ pictures all over and will be carrying ‘Ghana must go’ bags everywhere, wheeling and dealing. Na who get money pass and who deliver pass is the winner. Not who get sense pass. So Atiku is definitely not the best qualified but the best dasher and this is why these crops of delegates are worse than the devil’s blood children. I saw EFCC walking around the place with their red jackets looking lost and not even knowing what to do. The fact that all money laundering laws have been thrown to the winds lost on them. Well, PDP has chosen their king, what else can we say. Atiku the ‘barbarian king’ has emerged again. We hunker down. Salvation is still far. Aminu Tambuwal: Far from a Hero This one too will be shaking his head and be doing like he has done something noble. The Chairman of PDP, Iyorchia Ayu was seen visiting him and hailing him as the ‘Hero of the Convention’ simply because he stepped down. All of us were initially meant to believe that the stepping down was altruistic. A lot of southern leaders had gone to town to scream how the North always come together to fight for one North. Even Apostle Suleiman, fresh from the d…k showing scandal, also reined in by saying how the southern politicians are just noise makers who never knew how to come together as one. Well, I have seen a video which blows all these to pieces. Tambuwal knew very well that he didn’t have the support of a vast majority of his people in Sokoto. A huge meeting of elders and stakeholders in Sokoto was held and in that meeting, it was categorically stated and agreed that he would not be supported. He was called all sorts of names in big grammar. Grammar that you will not usually ascribe to a northern politician- he didn’t pronounce some words well but it can pass. So, Tambuwal, seeing that and to avoid imminent disgrace, quickly went to play the hero to hoodwink us. Information reaching me shows that if he had gone ahead, he would have had Senator Shehu Sanni with his two votes defeat him. So, my people there is no hero Tambuwal but a quick thinking and strategic Tambuwal which in essence is even more sensible than my own governor who still went ahead to record 37 votes and came back to Uyo to be eating Afang instead of joining forces to make history at the convention. Na wa. Nyesom Wike: A Shouting Weakling Just as I was about to write this piece, someone called my attention. A very beautiful woman, she said, “Edgar, what is so courageous about someone who was alleged to have spent over N33 billion Rivers State Government money on an inordinate ambition? Was it his money?” Shame catch me o. I was about to hail Wike for not allowing himself to be brow beaten by a system which naturally looks down at minorities. We are minorities o. I wanted to say well-done bro, for insisting that you must be given power on your own terms. I was going to say well-done, you shouted well, coming second from Rivers was remarkable and I was going to say you are the champion. Then Ore came and spoiled it with that statement which is a fact. How do you mindlessly spend that kind of money when people are suffering and dying? Just last week over 30 people in your state died in a stampede queuing for food. It’s madness. The fact that you are a governor with immunity and powers does not mean that you can just be throwing the money up and down because you want to be president, so that you will now be throwing around national money instead of just Rivers money. So, my brother, I pull back. I no hail you again. I hereby apologise to Madam Ore and all right-thinking Nigerians for my momentary lapse in judgment. Please forgive me, na lack of Afang for a bit disconnect my brain. Please are there any auditors in Rivers? Do they still have a State House of Assembly? What are the federal authorities doing? Mbok, while you are still on it can the same questions be asked in Akwa Ibom – N33 billion? Kogi billions and still counting and all the other states? Is it their money? APC. A Parade of Dwarfs Please have you seen the APC list of presidential hopefuls. Please if you have not, go and scan through and have a good laugh. The list is so weak that you will piss from laughter. Everybody get k-leg on that list and it’s no wonder that Buhari after scanning through is begging to be allowed to choose his person. There is nothing on that list. From Tinubu, to Osinbajo to Amaechi to Okorocha there is nobody on that list that will defeat Atiku in a free and fair election. How Tinubu will win this one is something I am really waiting to see. From Chicago, to health, to division in his base, to bullion van. How he would dodge all these bullets to the throne will be the 8th wonder of the world. Amaechi, the supreme court has started wounding him, Wike will ‘die’ instead of allowing him. He has no national followership. He can wear all the Babaringa he wants to wear and eat all the ‘goro’ to the point that his teeth will be red, he cannot defeat Atiku in voter clusters anywhere in this country. Osinbajo na lightweight. Too gentlemanly for the dog fights needed. Humbled by being number two in this regime that has seen the Naira lose over 600% of value. What exactly does he want to sell? Is it Fayemi who is not known outside of Ekiti and who shares a base with Tinubu and who Fayose will decimate even in that Ekiti? Is it Bello? Mbok, let me just laugh. Or Okorocha that is wetting his pants any time EFCC knocks on his door? Mbok, APC is just one funny contraption with 24 political dwarfs. Buhari must have looked at the list and just shook his head and said to his wife, “Hajia, we are in trouble. I no see anybody for this list.” I am even thinking that APC should draft Buhari’s wife into this matter quickly o because from this list I am seeing, e be like say Atiku will overrun them even with federal might. I am telling you. APC: Please Who is that Girl? Mbok, as Tinubu siddon with starched agbada and spoke with that his drawl that only him dey hear, I just noticed something. The APC screening team has one very beautiful lady on it o. Remove that Oyegun gorimapa and there you are. Kai, come and see the skin, the facial structure, the beautiful allure. Wow, so beautiful. I stopped listening to Tinubu and was trying to catch a better glimpse of the lady. Oyegun kept using his head to block the lady and I found myself screaming at my screen, “Oga remove your head o.” Mbok, such a beautiful lady and from what I saw, she will be tall o. She will have legs as long as that of a gazelle. I do not know if she is married, but if she is, that would be such a national tragedy for one man to hold her. She should be put in the National Museum for us to be ogling at her and worshipping her. I will register with APC for her. Kai, I don’t even know her name o. Mbok, anybody that is close to her, kindly tell her that the Duke of Shomolu, Lord Ini and the family head of the Edgar Clan-local and diaspora is looking for her number. Please, I will pay ransom to anybody that sends me her numbers within the next seven days. This is the only reason why I will vote APC. Please, where is the registration centre? In all of my career with women only one woman from Kwara/Kogi don fine pass her o. Please send me her number ooo. Peter Obi: Better Warn Your People So, I said my mind last week on Peter Obi’s defection from the PDP to the Labour Party and that is how all his people started abusing me. The abuse was plenty and I just ignored them. It is not today that people have been abusing me for my views. It will not stop me from eating Afang or shake my body. So, this deluge of Obi supporters abusing me is nothing. But one hit home. This one called me a thief and ass licker. He said that since he started reading this column for years now, he did not know how or where to place me, but this my Obi column has confirmed that I am a thief and ass licker. Mbok, see mumu o. See the abuse he gave me simply for small thing that I talked about. Calling me a thief is something else. I am so many things – womaniser, crazy man, nudist, tattoo enthusiast but a thief? No ooo. I have never been called a thief nor have I ever stolen in my life except when I thief people girlfriends. If na that one yes, I am a thief but the thief in this baba’s context, I no gree. Please I have his numbers and he is reading this. If he is a man, he should come to me at Bajulaiye road in Shomolu where all the molues park after a hard day’s work so that we can fight. He cannot be hiding behind social media and be abusing me. Come if you are a man and let’s fight stark naked. Bring the most beautiful woman in your village and I will also bring three very beautiful Akwa Ibom damsels. If you beat me, you go with mine and if I beat you, I will take your own. Me, thief? Me, ass licker? Because of Obi? I am waiting o. Shehu Sani: Two Votes a Slave You know some people do not know how to respect themselves. You see that the whole thing has turned to Ariaria market and you still carry your afro go there. People that spent millions were losing, making them contract bandits and kidnappers to recover their money and you still went to put head. Bros in a report said that he was even surprised that he got two votes. In that market, it is not English or values or vision that is being traded there o. It is raw cash. Raw Igbo trader type of cash. Cash speaks. No other language is understood there. If you understand that, just don’t bother. We are still waiting for the next elected officials from the President to the councillor to come and be talking about piety, justice and incorruptible leadership. Can anything good come out from such a diseased birth canal? My brother, let’s go and join an NGO and watch Nollywood films. This is not for your type. Accept my condolences. Na real condolence. Senator Bassey Edet Otu: Raises a Point When Senator Ita Giwa called and said she wanted to talk about something, you quickly listen o. “I hear you have been eating Afang somewhere? That na treasonable felony o.” I quickly denied o. “It was just once that my sister Cindy, the one that is handling Akan Udofia’s media in Akwa Ibom took me to eat Afang at Jevnik and I didn’t even enjoy it ma,” I lied. She said, “Well, that will be handled another day, I want to talk about Senator Otu and seek your support.” I hadn’t heard of him up until then but coming from Mama Bakassi, then he must have something to offer. He is a gentle and generous man, she started. Very philanthropic in nature with the interest of the people at heart. The people had given him the opportunity but the powers that be tried to scuttle it and we went into the trenches. Thankfully according to her, victory was affirmed. Prominent citizens like Senator Ndoma Egba (SAN), Pius Tawo, Chief Peters and a host of others stood on the side of justice and it prevailed. She believes that Cross River State was in need of the type of leadership he was offering hence her full support of the candidate. She continued, “I am trying my best to get him off his shell. Make him a little bit more open and accessible so that the rest of the people can see the sterling quality that he possesses.” If you have ever eaten Mummy’s Afang, you will just be agreeing the way I was agreeing. Who wants to be suspended from Echoes of Calabar? Me? No ooo. Mbok, people of Cross River, I am now an extraordinary delegate and I am telling you all that Prince Otu is your next Governor. Vote for him, work with him and watch him transform your state. Mummy, I have talked. Can I come on Tuesday, because the chef said that is the day they use prawns as a side dish? Laide Agboola and Obinna Onunkwo: A Purple Way to Go hebi they say that Yoruba and Igbo people don’t like themselves. That is only in politics if at all. Daily, Yoruba boys are chasing Igbo girls and vice versa  all over the place. Mbok, that is talk for another day. Another example is Laide and Obinna, these boys have taken the real estate, finance and retail space with a storm. I have heard one small secret and I have been sworn to secrecy but I will talk here abeg, come and beat me. They will soon be launching a N40 billion Initial Public Offer (IPO) making their group one of the huge leaders in the new economy. Mbok see Laide and Obinna o. These boys no old reach me o. Still in their early 40s and are doing these big things and you say there is no hope in Nigeria. They own the huge purple mall in Maryland. Yes, that one with the biggest LED billboard in Africa. They also own the purple franchise which comes with strategic real estate holdings and the wave making Purple Money. I salute their courage. They have suffered blood and are still suffering but still pushing. Last time I was with Laide, he said, “Edgar, see tension. See my hands are shaking.” I asked him if he doesn’t have a side chick? “Mbok, leave me. focus.” And we laughed. I celebrate these boys and do wish them tremendous success in this IPO. Landmark! Banky W, Sam Aiboni, What is Going On? Let me first declare that I am vested. Sam is my friend and co-director at Hamilton and George so my objectivity go hard on this matter. But as a true Nigerian seeking a new lease in national ethos, I must be objective. These two battled for the PDP nominations in Eti -Osa Local Government in Lagos for the House of Representatives. Banky is a fine and very popular gentleman. Strong name recognition and huge followership in the entertainment space with one of the most beautiful wives you can imagine. He is a Lagosian and well entrenched. Sam, on the other hand, is one of the most brilliant lawyers you will ever come across. A good looking – despite his huge tummy- a young man from Edo State. His wife is the first female appointed to run a Shell company and he comes from a family of intellectuals with his father being a professor. Sam is an arbitrator and an internationally regarded legal mind with seats on some of the juiciest committees globally. The kind of mind that would enrich the House. Well, when he told me he was contesting, I said, “Bro, with this your bele how you go win for Eti-Osa. You na Ishan man and the babes go follow Banky. You no fit win o. You sabi sing? You sabi rap? You sabi toast? Remember that area is where all the slay queens live and Don Jazzy go put mouth o.” Sam said, “Edgar, no worry.” Well, the day came and people voted and the results don hang. Almost two weeks now we no know the winner o. We have seen a video with Banky getting over 20 votes and Sam with three and then we have seen a PDP return form showing Sam with over 20 votes as against Banky’s 3. Everybody is weak. I don’t have access to Banky so I have not gotten his position. I have spoken to Sam who said that the footage we saw was fake and that he was waiting for the central working committee of the PDP to settle the matter. For me, I think the PDP has a mean task because these two are a major asset for them if we are to upturn the monarchy in Lagos. So how they will resolve this one without losing one person is the issue. Remember PDP in Lagos no reach 50 people statewide including Bode George so losing one person get as e be. How will they enter general elections with 49 people? This one pass me o.