 Fadekemi Ajakaiye In a bid to further the objective of Green Recovery Nigeria (GRN) initiative, a reforestation programme instituted by the Nigerian Conservation Foundation (NCF), the Pernod Ricard Nigeria partners NCF on tree planting across the South-west of Nigeria. As part of its Sustainability & Responsibility (S&R) agenda for the year 2022, Pernod Ricard Nigeria in collaboration with NCF plants 2000 tree seedlings at Old Oyo National Park, Sapateri, Oyo State; Pan-Atlantic University, Ibeju-Lekki; Omo Forest Reserve, J4, Ogun State; Lagos Business School, Lekki and round it up at Lekki Conservation Centre, Lagos. The role of forests in supporting the energy requirements of mankind is as old as creation itself. Mankind evolved from firewood gathering to large-scale forest despoliation to supply both domestic and international energy demands. The importance of having the forests with us has been highly stressed even now than it was before due to the roles performed in stabilizing national security, creation of job opportunities, sources of livelihood and the natural health care center for the average rural poor. These opportunities are rapidly being eroded due to threats from competing land uses, unsustainable agriculture practice, over exploitation of our forest reserves (this includes unregulated activities of both timber and charcoal merchants), and poaching. If we as people commit ourselves now to restoring the environment, preserve it for future, proffer solutions and deliberately pay attention to reforestation and restoration programmes, such as the one being promoted by NCF and Pernod Ricard, at all levels, individuals, corporate organisations and governments, when everyone begins to live sustainably, we shall avoid the looming trouble environmental challenges are throwing at us, although most are man-made. Pernod Ricard S&R is based on four key pillars that address all aspects of its production, from grain to glass, with their 2030 objectives clearly set out to support the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Its key commitments in these pillars include Biodiversity; Regenerative Agriculture; Equality and future leadership; Shared knowledge and learning; Packaging and waste; Water balance and carbon-footprint; Alcohol misuse; and Responsible Party. Some of the tree seedlings planted include Shea Butter – Vitellaria paradoxa, Cashew – Anacardium occidwntale, Parkia (Locust beans) – Parkia biglobosa, Mango – Mangifera indica Queen palm, Golden palm, Mango, Sour sop, Citrus, Native apple, Eucalyptus among others. The tree planting exercise in Ogun, Oyo and Lagos States commenced few weeks ago and was brought to conclusion today, 16th June 2022 at Lekki Conservation Centre. Mr. Sola Oke, Managing Director of Pernod Ricard Nigeria led his team in the exercise, while Mr. Uchenna Achunine, Director of Business Development & Communications received the team on behalf of the Director General of NCF. NCF is the foremost environmental NGO dedicated to nature conservation and sustainable development in Nigeria. Established in 1980, the Foundation has a vision of “a Nigeria where people prosper while living in harmony with nature”. NCF operations focus on environmental education, biodiversity conservation, policy advocacy, public sensitization on environmental issues, mitigating environmental pollution and poverty reduction. NCF is the BirdLife partner in Nigeria. NCF is open for partnership on species restoration, climate change mitigation, forest regeneration etc.