 But for his agility between the sticks in which he made 26 appearances in all competitions and kept seven clean sheets; Hapoel Jerusalem FC might not be campaigning in the Israeli top flight next season. Adebayo Adeleye’s performance was indeed not lost among Super Eagles coaches as he got his maiden invitation into the Nigeria’s national team for the 2023 AFCON qualifiers against Sierra Leone and Sao Tome and Principe. Though the 22-year-old was an unused substitute against the Leone Stars, he still sees his call-up as a dream come true For his fine performances at Hapoel Jerusalem FC, Adebayo Adeleye was rewarded with his first ever call-up to the latest Nigeria squad. The shot-stopper was included in the Super Eagles 27-man squad list for the 2023 African Cup of Nations (AFCON) qualifiers Group A matches against Sierra Leone and Sao Tome and Principe. Taking to Twitter, Adeleye revealed his pride at being chosen to represent his national team, saying it was a dream come true for him. He wrote: “Excited to be invited to the Super Eagles squad for the AFCON Qualifiers against Sierra Leone & São Tomé. “Thank you all for the support so far and special appreciation to everyone Hapoel Jerusalem. It’s actually a dream come through for me.” Adeleye earned his debut call-up to the national team following his impressive performances between the sticks for Hapoel Jerusalem in the Israeli Premier League. The 22-year-old was a major reason why the Red Devils maintained their top flight status last season as they finished 12th of 14 teams in the league. He made 26 appearances in all competitions, keeping seven clean sheets. The Hapoel Jerusalem goalkeeper indeed said he is ready for competition for playing time in the national team’s matches. “I am happy to be part of this great team. It’s a very big one for me. In short, it’s a dream come true. I am going to give it my best shot and see how it goes. I am here not to make up the numbers, but to see how I can help my country to qualify for AFCON 2023,” Adebayo said. “The match against Sierra Leone is a big one for me being new in the team, but I am under no pressure. If I get the go ahead to start or called upon mid into the game, I will not disappoint. I will give my best and see how it goes.” Asked if the presence of Maduka Okoye and Francis Uzoho ahead of him in the goalkeeping position does not worry him, the 22-year-old, a former Nigerian national U-17 goalkeeper said, “I am not worried, I will continue to work hard and see how it goes. I am equal to the challenge.” Former Super Eagles goalkeeping trainer, Alloy Agu, has once told Adeleye to be patient about his Super Eagles call-up but charged not take his foot off the burner in his quest to get a national team call-up. Nigerians in Israel have long before now been questioning the rationale behind Adeleye’s omission from the Super Eagles despite his superb form but the former 36Lion FC believe as his opportunity will come and he will grab it with both hands. Born on May 16, 2000, Adeleye who turned 22 in May this year, has more than 10 years of active football left in him but in his current form, he looks more like the solution needed to solve the key problem of goalkeeping in the Super Eagles. Meanwhile, former Super Eagles coach Augustine Eguavoen has congratulated Hapoel Katamon Jerusalem goalkeeper, Adeleye on his maiden national team call-up ahead of Nigeria’s 2023 Nations Cup qualifiers. Adeleye has been in the doldrums in recent years, playing in the second tier of Israeli football until last season when his team gained promotion. Adeleye was a constant performer last season, keeping seven clean sheets in 26 appearances in all competitions to help his side stay afloat in the Israeli Ligat ha’Al. The 22-year-old got rewarded for his performances as he made the cut for the Super Eagles squad that would take on Sierra Leone and Mauritius later this month. Eguavoen coached Adeleye at U-17 level, but he failed to include the agile shot-stopper in his squad for the last AFCON and the World Cup qualifier against Ghana. However, following Adeleye’s invitation to the Super Eagles camp, Eguavoen congratulated him on the feat and wished him success with the three-time African champions. “Welcome to the Super Eagles, Leye. Wish you the very best on this new career highlight,” Eguavoen said via his Twitter page. With new Super Eagles Portuguese Manager, Jose Peseiro still searching for his best 11, the 22-year-old could get a chance. On Thursday Nigeria defeated Sierra Leone at the MKO Abiola National Stadium in their opening Group A game of the 2023 AFCON qualifiers, before heading to Marrakech, Morocco on Monday, June 13, to play away against Sao Tome and Principe.