 Peter Uzoho The Eko Electricity Distribution Company (EKEDC) has responded to the complaints by its customers in Surulere over poor power supply and other operational lapses, saying it is working hard to ensure improved service delivery to all electricity consumers under its network. The Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of EKEDC, Dr Tinuade Sanda, said the company’s management was keen on establishing a closer relationship with customers across its network with a view to understanding their challenges and addressing them. Sanda gave the assurances at an engagement forum with the Distribution Company’s (Disco) customers in Surulere, saying the company would perform better in meeting their expectations. Represented at the forum by the Chief Finance Officer, EKEDC, Mr. Joseph Esenwa, Sanda explained to the customers that the Nigerian electricity industry was going through numerous challenges that were even beyond the capacity of the Discos. She noted that those challenges were causing setbacks in achieving improved power supply to consumers across the country. “As the face of the power industry to the consumers, it is essential for us to actively engage our customers on platforms such as this to identify their problems and provide solutions,” Sanda said. She further explained that inadequate gas supply, low power generation, system collapse, and vandalism have contributed to the drop in power supply, and that the problems were not peculiar to only EKEDC. Sanda stated that the company was currently working with other industry stakeholders to ensure the challenges were reduced to the barest minimum. She pointed out that the company was upgrading the distribution infrastructure across its network with a loan from the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and that the work will soon get to all customers’ areas. In the area of metering, Sanda urged the customers to embrace the Meter Asset Provider (MAP) scheme provided by the government in closing the metering gap before the commencement of Phase 1 of the National Mass Metering Programme (NMMP). She announced the existence of a mobile metering exercise by Eko Disco to ensure customers get metered within 72 hours of payment confirmation.