 In pursuit of its commitment to reinforce the high standard of its alma mater, members of the Old Boys Association of Loyola College Ibadan, 1977/82 Set, have concluded arrangements to hold a reunion after 40years of leaving the prestigious school. At the press conference to herald the plans for the 40th reunion, the Association’s Chairman, Oluwole Adeosun, accompanied by the Secretary General, Rotimi Seriki and Chairman of the Local Organising Committee, Oladipo Olasope, unveiled the programme of activities, including the arrangement to engage the Oyo State Government on the need to hand over the school to its original owners, the Catholic Mission for enhanced rapid development. Adeosun explained that the reunion, scheduled for Thursday, June 9 to Saturday, June 11 at the College premises, Ibadan, shall feature series of activities. “The members of Loyola College Ibadan Old Boys Association 1977/82 Set will be gathering next week for the Set’s home coming to their Alma Mata at Old Ife Road , Ibadan after 40yrs of leaving the School on completion of their secondary school education at the pre-eminent school in 1982. “ The reunion celebrations which will hold between June 9-11, 2022 at the premises of Loyola College, Ibadan shall feature the following: memorable walk around the school ; Lectures and Guidance and Counseling Talk for the Senior School students; Novelty Match; Thanksgiving; Mass service and Presentation of the Set‘s Project and the eveAnniversary Dinner. “ I seize this opportunity to call on the state government to consider the return of the school to its original owners , the Catholic Mission or better still the Old Students Association. This will ensure that the institution attains its pre-eminent status of being the ‘best in every way’, of high academics standards, well equipped and highly maintained infrastructure, competent and well renumerated teaching staff, which will engender the overall ratings in academics, sports and value oriented morals. “ The Set’s scholarship award programme instituted during the last reunion in 2017 for 10 indigent but brilliant students in JSS3 annually to enable them further to the Senior Secondary school has gone a long way to assisting the families of the beneficiaries. The students have all completed their secondary education and secured admission to different higher institutions. The scholarship scheme would be expanded to enable more students benefit annually,”  Adeosun said. He noted that the 40th reunion would surpass the previous ones in terms of attendance by its members and content of activities.