 Leading food processing and packaging company, Tetra Pak West Africa, has ended its 4-week long, nutrition enlightenment and dairy awareness campaign tagged ‘Dairy Diaries’. The campaign comprised insightful Radio conversations on Beat FM, Lagos, Kiss FM, Abuja and Dream FM, Enugu which were held by 8a.m., 4:30p.m. and 8:00a.m. respectively every Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. Featuring educational discussions on dairy nutrition and how it affects different groups of people, the campaign was a specially curated series that addressed the nutritional concerns of working moms, the elderly, fitness enthusiasts, and children. The one man expert panel of the campaign was handled by renowned Nigerian Dietician, Dr. Adeola Adeleye, Managing Director of Praadom Dietary Consulting Services, and the health professional behind the popular “Ask the Dietician”. She led the conversation and shared useful information about the diet and health significance of dairy products as it relates to fitness, weight gain/loss, dieting, parenting, healthy eating for busy people, bone conditions and so much more. Speaking on the impact of the Dairy Diaries, Stella Ondimu, Head of Communications, East and West Africa, Tetra Pak said, “The just-concluded Dairy Diaries was value packed with great nutrition advice for every single person on managing stress, planning and sticking to eating schedules, feeding healthy children, amongst other amazing things. We’ve received a lot of positive feedback from consumers and we’re glad that Dairy Diaries had such a positive impact.” “At Tetra Pak, West Africa, we’re on a definitive mission to help people improve their nutrition and protect their health. In doing this, we’ve realized that asides protecting foods – which we already do – knowledge sharing on nutrition is key to helping people obtain optimal health. Hence, the development of our signature Dairy Diaries Campaign where we educate people on the nutritional goodness that is Dairy.” Listeners were given the opportunity to call in and have their questions adequately answered by the nutrition expert. Excitingly, every session of the Dairy Dairies Campaign featured a trivia segment where listeners had the chance to win freebies and gifts from Tetra Pak when they answered simple dairy questions. 15 winners were given Tetra Pak gift packs filled with Kitchen utensils and recipe booklets. Tetra Pak West Africa, is the world’s leading no. 1 food processing and packaging company on a mission to protect and share what’s good by helping people improve their dairy dietary lifestyle, awareness and choices