 Nigeria’s real estate company, bamboo Real Estate and Construction Limited – an arm of the bamboo group of companies, is set to unveil its flagship smart city project, Silicon Delta, in Port Harcourt, the Rivers State capital. The new project which aims to help redefine living conditions and technological advancement in Africa, is expected to be completed by 2030. The firm noted in a press statement issued recently. Planted in Port Harcourt and fully-powered by technology, the project is a smart, green city where innovative and creative minds can live, work, play and create. Speaking on the development and vision, the Chairman of bamboo Group, Mr. Oseyomon Ighodaloh, underscored the need to aggressively invest in “future-ready” smart accommodation to meet up the ever increasing demand of housing, especially for remote workers. He said: “Nigeria, especially the southern region, is in dire need of a future-ready community that drives growth, and fully powered by technology where business-friendly governance, policy and regulatory systems are all in place to encourage the remote-work lifestyle.” He added that the project was consummated in a bid to solve the challenge of lack and shortage of quality and conducive accommodation that has led many to leave the shores of the country in search of an environment that works and supports their ideas and businesses, leading to brain drain. The project, the chairman emphasised, will reduce the number of professionals leaving the country as well as serve as an alternative ecosystem supporting businesses to thrive. “The company has further gone ahead to initiate the process of acquiring over 370,000 square metres of prime land towards delivering on the mandate,” says Ighodaloh. Described as creating Silicon Delta, Ighodaloh noted that the project was designed to provide an oasis of unprecedented technology and world-class infrastructure that incredible Nigerian talents deserve and need for greater innovation. On the ambition, he described the city as a globally recognised hub where forward thinking entrepreneurs, creatives and innovators can thrive; having all the amenities of the first world right at home.“Imagine a Dubai right in the Niger Delta”, the chairman highlighted. “The company addresses a key market need for Nigerians by seeking to provide first of its kind facilities including features such as ultra-modern smart homes, with appliances that can be operated over mobile phones, 24/7 uninterrupted power supply, recreational facilities, a clean, green environment that ensures residents get the freshest and coolest breeze obtainable in an urban setting courtesy of regular tree planting initiatives. “A golf course, a lake and resort, parks and gardens, art galleries, a games village, consisting of a skating rim, sports and entertainment centre, all to make the entire living experience dreamy and exciting,” he listed. Notwithstanding, the Onómé, a proposed 30 storey mixed use luxury skyscraper with coworking spaces, luxury studio apartments, hotels, offices and other commercial activities, will be built adorning the skyline of the Silicon delta. Silicon Delta will afford residents a clear view of beautiful sunsets with no wires hanging around while offering similar broadband speed to countries like Singapore, Hongkong and Switzerland. By setting a standard in Nigeria, the project will build a community of people who are passionate about innovation and ready to storm up new ideas that would put southern Nigeria on the global map. According to Ighodaloh, Silicon Delta will have world-class healthcare, educational and recreational facilities all within walking distance from home. “The city will create an ecosystem that enables innovative start-ups to thrive, attracting tech and IT talents from around the world,” he said. With a vision to be a truly African company with a reputation for innovation and excellent service delivery, “We are inviting and welcoming other partners and global investors to champion this project and make this dream a reality. “As investors, you will be placed on the map, get facilities, streets, named after you. You’ll get returns on your investment as a part of the founding shareholders of the Silicon Delta, and go down in history as one of the selected few who made the Niger Delta region globally recognised”. The mission is to replicate the success stories of Singapore, Dubai, and Bangalore and become the new tech capital of the world, and it will be an investors haven. He continued: “As at 2018, Nigeria’s housing deficit was at 20 million housing units. At the current rate of population growth, that figure is bound to have spiked by at least 21 per cent come 2030 when the Silicon Delta will be officially launched.” With a resolute plan and future-thinking team at the backend, the group Chairman is convinced that Nigerians will opt for an environment as the proposed Silicon Delta that serves the combination of their business, innovative and recreational needs.