 Emma Okonji The Nest, a technology innovation hub located in Yaba, Lagos, in collaboration with World Intellectual Property Organisation (WIPO), a specialised agency of the United Nations, has launched Technology Innovation Support Centre (TISC) in Nigeria, to support technology startups and entrepreneurs, while promoting global research in a digital era. Co-founder, The Nest, Mr. Oluwajoba Oloba, explained that the TISC centre would help Nigerian startups and entrepreneurs to make use of the best technology tools and resources to scale up their businesses. “If a startup is developing a solution that will address specific challenges, the startup needs to know if other startups have already developed that solution and whether such product has been registered and patented within the tech ecosystem. These are some of the advantages that people will get if they are registered with TISC in Nigeria,” Oloba said. Speaking at the launch through video conferencing, the IP Information Officer, TISC Development Section at WIPO, Dr. Elangi Ituku Botoy, said Science and Technology have removed physical barriers among nations, thus making it possible for people to interact from different parts of the world. “Brazil, China, Argentina, among other world countries, have effectively used technology to drive innovation across various sectors of their economies, and I encourage Nigeria to do same, because Nigeria has the population of vibrant youths that can use technology to drive innovation and scale up their businesses. We need Intellectual Property (IP) strategy and Nigerian, ”Botoy said. Head, Startups at the Lagos State Employment Trust Fund (LSETF), Mrs. Ireayo Oladunjoye, said the launch of Technology Innovation Support Centre in Lagos, would further help in creating jobs and wealth in the state and in the country. According to her, “The state unemployment rate grew higher than the federal this year, but LSETF has come up with a lot of interventions to address  unemployment rate in Lagos State, by creating the right platforms that are driving job and wealth creation in the state, through capacity building.” The CTO/Co-founder, Edutech Global, Mr. Olufemi Shonubi, spoke about how Edutech Global is leveraging technology to drive e-learning in schools, during COVID-19 and post COVID-19. Managing Partner, CrestHall Attorneys, Adebayo Fabamise, talked about how the law firm, with bouquet of businesses, has leveraged technology to drive innovation in the entertainment industry. Senior Associate, Aluko & Oyebode Firm, Mr. Ayo Adetula, spoke about how law firms are leveraging technology to drive innovation, and the need for IP protecting and collaboration.