 Kuni Tyessi in Abuja Executive Secretary of Tertiary Education Trust Fund, (TETFund), Mr. Sonny Echono, has said the issues of sharing formula for the normal intervention to tertiary institutions is entrenched in the law establishing the Fund and it required amendment for any change to take place. Echono made this submission while responding to the request of the Association of Heads of Polytechnics and Colleges of Technology in Nigeria, (COHEADS), to reconsider the sharing formula in favour of polytechnics during their courtesy visit to him. The Executive Secretary, who shared in the desire of polytechnics that global trends now are towards skills, innovation, and entrepreneurship, has however, assured the association that TETFund supports some forms of intervention that would enhance capacity of the Nigeria polytechnics. “Concerning your request, there are things we can do and there are things that are beyond us. For example, the issue of sharing formula is entrenched in the law establishing the Fund and requires amendment of law to effect any change. However, in terms of special interventions, we do have some elements of input that the Board of Trustee can exercise and those areas we will support you,” said the executive secretary. He commended polytechnics for being in the frontline of providing manpower for development of the national economy, charging COHEADS members to use the tremendous responsibility on them to ensure graduates are employable and are able to identify and fill skill gaps in the economy. To achieve this, Echono submitted that it required providing an enabling environment in terms of facilities, in terms of right faculty and also to embrace continuous professional programmes that would enhance quality of education. Speaking earlier, Chairman of COHEADS, Dr. Akinkurolere Olufunke Olanike acknowledged the role of the Fund in national development, affirmed that TETFund is leading in human and capital development, and acknowledged the role of TETFund in the national development. She also acquainted the TETFund boss on the activities of the COHEADS which included, to provide a forum for Chief Executives of Polytechnics/Colleges of Technology to exchange experiences, views and ideas on issues of common interest and in particular, to act as a catalyst for the growth and development of sound technical and vocational education in Nigeria;  to make collective representations and responses to national and international issues involving all aspects of technical and vocational education in Nigeria.