 Chuks Okocha in Abuja In response to the sudden surge of eligible Nigerians to register in some states, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has released additional 209 machines to ease the registration of voters’ exercise. The registration machines were deployed mainly to the five South Eastern states, Lagos and Kano where the pressure is most acute. According to a statement by the National Commissioner in charge of INEC Publicity and Chairman voter Education, Festus Okoye, said that the release of the machines was to address the sudden surge. “In response, the Commission has immediately released additional 209 machines deployed mainly to the five South Eastern States, Lagos and Kano where the pressure is most acute,” Okoye said. According to him, The Commission will monitor the situation over the next few days and thereafter.” It will meet to review the progress of the exercise.” According to the statement, “Every step will be taken and all options will be explored to ensure that eligible Nigerians are given the opportunity to register as voters.” The Commission appealed for patience and understanding of all citizens, explaining that, “Every Nigerian who is 18 years of age and above has the constitutional right to register and vote in any part of the country he/she resides without let or hindrance.” The commission explained that the sudden surge is an affirmation of the increasing confidence Nigerians have in the electoral process, adding that the INEC  will continue to ensure that this confidence is sustained. The statement said that INEC has received reports from the  states indicating an unprecedented surge in the number of citizens that wish to register as voters and the challenges they face across the country. In some states, the electoral body noted that sudden turnout of prospective registrants was overwhelming. Okoye said that it was for this reason that it convened an urgent meeting with all the Resident Electoral Commissioners (RECs) Thursday to review the situation so that eligible Nigerians who wish to register are able to do so. He said that the necessity to urgently deploy more voter enrolment machines to ease the congestion at the registration centres was identified as a priority.