 Austin Ekeinde Both locally and globally, the Niger Delta region is renowned for its rich hydrocarbons. But not much of attention is given to the vast and exotic wildlife in one of the world’s largest deltas which is daily contending with the adverse environmental practices – including oil spillages – of both individuals and corporate organisations, amidst the stark realities of Climate Change. It is on realisation that the region is in peril as a result of these unfavourable environment practices that Azibaola Robert and a team of climate enthusiasts undertook a 14-day expedition into deep forests of the Niger Delta – documenting their experience into a cinema of magnificent forests, wildlife and pure nature in serene form, highlighting the unfavourable effects of climate change and the need for the preservation of rare species (plants and animals); creation of alternative means of sustainable economy by way of tourism and conservation of the Niger Delta rainforests. Robert is the founder of Zeetin Engineering and the Chairman/Managing Director of Kakatar Group. A staunch lover of nature, Robert and his team made some startling discoveries during the expedition. “We observed that some of the wildlife, such as endangered species like pangolins, are fast depleting in population due to unfriendly human and commercial activities in the Niger Delta. And this has been happening for years,” Robert said. “Pangolins, foxes, iguanas, eagles, among others, are now difficult to find in these rich rainforests. That’s disturbing!” The team spent 14 days in the Niger Delta rich rainforests, filming and highlighting the forests’ situation. At the end, they produced a one hour, 44 minutes documentary titled: “Azibaola Robert’s Expedition into Deep Forests” – the first of its kind on environmental documentary in Nigeria. Robert said the two-part (two-hour) series film, premiered on June 5 on AIT took the producers over six months of work on the hundreds of hours of invaluable footages to produce. He said the abridged movie would leave viewers with lifetime experience. “It is a vivid reality show – the first of its kind on nature documentary in Nigeria,” Robert excitedly said. He added that the AIT premiere would be the first time viewers “are allowed into this awesome nature adventure.” The aim of this documentary, Robert said, “is to let Nigerians learn from the issues raised and take actions in protecting and preserving the environment for the present and future generations,” adding, “because, if we don’t take the necessary, urgent actions, future generations will no longer see most of these species in their natural environment, except in zoos.” Robert is taking the documentary to international stage. According to him: “We are seeking for possible collaboration on the issues highlighted in the documentary by sending it to all major international media outfits and television stations in the future. With our massive ongoing promo of the date and time of broadcast, AIT expects a huge viewing and it will be a massive market for brand promotion. It will also help identify fantastic brands for nature and climate change and project advertising brands unto the international stage. “In addition to this being the maiden edition, we intend to make the expedition an annual event and to make it open for external participation by interested organisations and individuals.”