 Sunday Aborisade, Abuja The Senator representing Kogi West Senatorial District, Smart Adeyemi, has rejected the outcome of the recently conducted All Progressives Congress (APC) National Assembly primary in his constituency. In the election which was held in Kabba, headquarters of the Senatorial District, Adeyemi had lost to a member of the House of Representatives, Sunday Karimi, who was announced as the candidate. Adeyemi, who addressed journalists in Abuja yesterday, however said he had petitioned the National Chairman of the APC, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, to draw the party’s leadership to the alleged anomaly, that happened during the poll. The Senator said his ordeal started when he refused to comply with the advice of Governor of the State, Yahaya Bello, that he should withdraw from the race.He explained that Bello had promised to make him the chief of staff when he wins the presidential election. He said the Governor also asked him to hold a meeting with the Chairman of the APC in the state, Abdullahi Bello but that the parley ended in a deadlock.He said, “I had a closed door meeting with the APC Chairman of my state, at the instance of my State Governor, Yahaya Adoza Bello. “The party chairman suggested that I should not contest the elections, but rather join hands with them for the realisation of Project Governor Yahaya Bello to President Yahaya Bello.“It is to the knowledge of my constituents and Nigerians at large that I have remained committed to this project and have not for once minced words about it. “However, the condition for my stepping aside was to take on a position which was technocratic in nature when my governor eventually emerges as president and this did not align with my personal goals and aspirations as a journalist and a crusader for the common man. “I immediately informed Abdullahi Bello unambiguously that my training as a journalist will not permit me to aspire to the role and as such, there was the need to fine tune things to accommodate everyone.“The meeting ended inconclusively, and thereafter, events metamorphosed into threats that I must not contest in the primary elections.” Speaking further, Adeyemi said: “After due considerations and deliberations with my senior friends, constituents, and my counterparts who are integral members of our great party, I headed their call, summoned courage and participated in the elections none the less. “Let me state unequivocally and without ambiguity, that the elections which took place on the May 22nd, 2022, in Kogi State were neither free nor fair. “It is on record that the list of delegates was changed 24 hours to the elections proper. Individuals who are not from Kogi West were brought in to vote under extremely hostile environment with militants, armed men, and unidentified thugs in their numbers.“This was apart from authorised security agents who were present to observe the event and ensure law and order. “Very crucial is the fact that the returning officer, Bashir Gegu had once aspired to run for this same office, and is a sitting commissioner in Kogi State. “As soon as he was announced as the returning officer, my ward wrote a formal letter to protest his nomination as it would have been impossible for him to be fair and just.” According to the Senator, on the day of the election, “he personally compelled people to vote his own choice, with most of the commissioners present in the voting hall. “Delegates were further made to comply with orders by saying they were unable to write and therefore a designated person commenced voting on their behalf. “It was only an insignificant few who had the courage to vote their respective choices, regardless of the gross and palpable intimidation. “Those present will attest to the fact that I departed the venue as quickly as I observed what was going on, and even before counting of the adulterated votes commenced. “To this effect, a formal petition has been filed at the APC secretariat giving full account of the events that took place.” He said the election was, “a complete rape of democracy, a day light robbery and an extremely manipulated exercise.”