 Ibrahim Oyewale, Lokoja The All Progressive Congress’ (APC) House of Assembly Flag Bearer for Ankpa State Constituency, Mr. Emmanuel Adukwu Bob, has appealed to Governor Yahaya Bello not to allow some forces to substitute his name for the 2023 House of Assembly election. Speaking yesterday in a chat with journalists in Lokoja, Emmanuel who is a person with disability, alleged that powerful forces within APC fold are going contrary to governor’s instructions for the inclusion of People With Disabilities (PWDs) in participation in politics. He stated that he participated and won the APC’s primary for Ankpa 1 State Constituency with 20 votes to defeat other aspirant at Ankpa Governors lodge, and appealed to Governor Bello to prevail on the elements to allow justice take its course by allowing him to contest 2023 election. He pointed out that some persons are boosting that they would substitute him for another person who did not participate in the primary some persons have vowed that a physically challenge person would not represent Ankpa 1. The Ankpa I State Constituency APC flag bearer said after getting a letter of clearance, issued with result sheet after winning the APC Primary for the Constituency, noting  that some forces are threatening to thwart the governor’s efforts to ensure that the PWDs are represented in the House of Assembly. Emmanuel lamented that some persons have vowed not to allow a person with disability represent them, but he pointed out that his physical condition did not affect his brain and intellect. The APC flag bearer said he is a registered voter, with a voter’s card in his constituency, but disclosed that some persons are boosting that the INEC nomination form have been given to them to fill because his APC Membership registration was done in Lokoja. The flag bearer said the APC membership card is the only a means to identify an individual as a bonafide member of the party, and begged Governor Bello to help him. He disclosed too that his Grandfather, Late Mr. M.M. Aduku, is a crowned Prince in Ankpa LGA while his mother hailed from the same area, noting that those bent on stealing his mandate are alleging that he is from Omala LGA. He pointed out that efforts to change and replace him unconstitutionally would impact negatively on the person of Governor Bello, who he said matched his love for people with disabilities with action by giving him an automatic ticket before he won the party’s primaries and emerged as the flag bearer. The decision to give him an automatic nomination by the governor, Emmanuel explained, was an occasion of Gov. Bello’s love for the Disability Community. Emmanuel appealed to Bello to intervene in ensuring that his mandate is not retrieved through an illegal and unconstitutional substitution. He added that Governor Bello’s good works for the PWDs should not be aborted and called on the governor to caution those attempting to make a substitution of his mandate.