 Gboyega Akinsanmi The New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP) yesterday lamented the failure of All Progressives Congress (APC) and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), noting that its presidential candidate, Senator Rabiu Kwankwaso would win the 2023 election. NNPP added that, a two-term governor of Kano State, was already positioned to win in North-west and North-east, saying its popularity “is spreading from Kano to major capitals, especially in Jigawa, Katsina, Kebbi and Zamfara.” The National Auditor of NNPP, Mr. Ladipo Johnson made the remarks in an interview with THISDAY yesterday, noting that the party “is doubling effort towards mass mobilisation nationwide.” Johnson, a Lagos-based legal practitioner, explained that the party would consequently win the 2023 presidential election. He said the political ideology of the presidential candidate of the NNPCC “is igniting mass followership and that the development will likely give him and the NNPP victory at the polls.” Johnson noted that Kwankwaso and the NNPP could confidently go into the next election and win. The national auditor observed that Kwankwaso’s optimism was founded on the fact that PDP was doing a terrible job as an opposition party and hence the people of Nigeria needed the vacuum to be filled by the NNPP. “Kwankwaso is a name that both the PDP and APC respect because his contributions to both parties are unquantifiable,” Johnson explained. According to him, strategic areas of mass support and acceptance of the party and its leadership as well as the emerging political developments in the other parties have changed the character of the political space and drastically diminished the advantage hitherto enjoyed by both the PDP and APC. “NNPP is now well positioned to win not only in the entire North West but is also North East, building bridges to have significant presence and support in the other regions to ensure a nationwide base. “What we are seeing right now is like a tsunami or call it political hurricane sweeping through the north on account of the mass membership of NNPP. The party is enjoying huge popularity, spreading from Kano to major capitals, especially in Jigawa, Katsina, Zamfara….. “NNPP is stamping a strong foothold in both North West and North East. Work is ongoing in a strategic manner that will shock you all. You can trust Kwankwaso and the grassroots mobilisation of his Kwankwasiyya group, which is a phenomenon. “NNPP will eventually have a key impact in other regions, so it’s not only in the north. I think what is playing out now cannot be divorced from Kwankwaso’s leadership and success ideals, what he represents to the people and his track record. “The masses believe he is not only capable, but also a leader one can trust. All the above will play out during the election,” NNPP’s national auditor explained.