 Okon Bassey in Uyo Worried by the tension generated as a result of the just concluded party nominations ahead of the 2023 general election, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Akwa Ibom State chapter, has inaugurated an 11-man committee to reconcile the aggrieved members and foster peace in the party. Inaugurating the reconciliation committee in Uyo, the state capital, yesterday, the state party Chairman, Rt. Hon Aniekan Akpan, acknowledged the existence of divergent concerns and grievances among some members of the party. He said the party was interested in addressing issues of disagreements arising from the party’s primaries, saying the umbrella of the party is big enough to cover everyone. “After the primaries, our party candidates emerged while others did not win the party’s tickets. This may have caused them and their supporters to feel bad and perhaps discouraged. “We value our members and we love to continue as one big family always, so this is why we thought it necessary to set up this committee, and we are sure the committee will achieve the objectives which the party is out to achieve,” the state PDP boss stated. He added: “As a party, we have a responsibility to reach out to everyone who holds a differing opinion from the outcome of the event, encourage them and help them restore their bearings as respected party men and women in the big umbrella family. “We also need to reinvigorate their faith, hope and confidence in the PDP as the only party that holds a better future for them and the sustainable peace, development and prosperity of Akwa Ibom State.” Responding, the Chairman of the Reconciliation Committee, Senator Effiong Bob, lauded the state PDP for the opportunity to serve, assuring the party of the committee’s readiness to do its best in ensuring due reconciliation of divergent interests as well as foster unity in the party. According to him, “I thank the party for the opportunity to serve. We are always willing to work so that we can deepen the taproot of the PDP in Akwa Ibom State. As it is said, people disagree to agree. Attempts will be made to reconcile all aggrieved members, and we will do this with the best of our ability. “We are going to reach out to all our members who hold any difference with the direction and decision of delegates and the party in the just-concluded nomination. “We will take time to listen to their positions and complaints and take steps to address the issues they have raised. “We, therefore, solicit the cooperation of all segments of our members. No one will be left behind.” Terms of reference given  to the committee include to “identify all aggrieved members and segments of the party; identify causes and sources of grievances; identify ways and means to reconcile real and perceived grievances of members in the party,” among others. The committee is expected to submit an interim report within four weeks from the date of the inauguration.