 Victor Ogunje in Ado Ekiti Aggrieved aspirant on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC)in the House of Representatives poll conducted in Ekiti State, Mr. Dele Philips, has appealed to his supporters not to dump the party for the opposition parties. Philips expressed confidence that the party will prevent those who want to secure the tickets through injustice, backdoor and brigandage. The primary election for the constituency comprising the Ekiti West, Ijero and Efon local government areas of the state was inconclusive following violent disruption of the exercise midway by agents of one of the aspirants, a situation that enraged Philip’s supporters. Philips, who addressed journalists in Aramoko Ekiti,  yesterday said the APC leadership will trash all the cases and give justice to those who felt cheated in the elections. Dismissing the insinuation that he and supporters were planning to dump APC for another party, Philips, said: “Under no circumstance will I abandon the broom party. I plead with my supporters to also display loyalty to this party”. The House of Representatives aspirant, said whatever the decision of the party leaders on the matter, he would abide by it, saying that the party is bigger than any individual political aspiration no matter how highly placed. He said : “We are here today to call on my supporters and APC members to remain calm. APC is a peaceful party and peace is eminent.  Now, the youths, elders and people of this constituency should come together as one and vote for Oyebanji in the June 18 governorship poll. “We have our matter being looked into. There are no winners and losers yet. The party’s leadership is speaking to us and we are listening. We expect to come back to our people very soon to tell them that we have a solution to what we think is a crisis. It’s not a crisis. No result yet we can say someone was cheated. We are all together. Unity is what we must achieve together”. He emphasized that the in-built internal mechanism of the party shall be adopted to resolve the controversy, hence, there was no cause for alarm and agitation as the botched election was being looked into. He pledged to continue to aggressively mobilise support for ruling APC and its governorship candidate, Biodun Oyebanji in ensuring the party secure a landslide victory in the June 18 governorship poll. “We have given points on the disrupted primary and people should understand that no Dele, no BAO doesn’t exist, BAO exist, Dele exist. We are one. Together we will campaign and together we will win. “I can tell you that there would be no protest, crisis and violence. We would vote for BAO and wait for what come to us as a result of the disrupted election”.