 Ferdinand Ekechukwu Talented Nigerian Disc Jockey, DJ Consequence has unveiled an impressive hit track dubbed “Paused.” The song features a brilliant and hardworking Dancehall/Reggae artiste, Patoranking. In addition, this is an excellent smash single that has won critics and observers that you wouldn’t like to overlook for anything at all. The song happens to be DJ Consequence’s first single in 2022. Following his captivating song, “Number One”, with DJ Tarico alongside Preck and Nelson Tivane, in 2021, which is still making a major impact till this moment. Interestingly, DJ Consequence, born Akeredolu Precious Pelumi, has been doing music from way back, he tells this reporter in a chat. “I have features with Olamide, Tiwa Savage, YC; my latest single now is with Patoranking called Pause,” he explains.  “My first major single was with Big Mo and Niola called ‘Just the Two of Us’ featuring Tuface and Annie in the video. I had something with Dammykrane it was just like freestyle; with Dammykrane and Ice Prince we did for one of our club promoters back then. “I dropped an EP in 2020 called ‘The Vibes from the Future’ where I featured young acts that are already big acts. Then I had Buju, Bella Shmurda, Oxlade, Viktony, all these guys popping now back then I already had them on the EP.” DJ Consequence as an art person does music, and plays instruments. What inspires him? For him it’s just something borne out of love. “I have been into music way back in secondary school; I was the music prefect because I play instrument. It’s something I love doing from my childhood. I play drums, guitar, keyboard, and trumpet. Music has been a part of me from childhood. I will say my inspiration is part of my childhood because music has been what I have been doing since. So coming into deejay scene, music scene, they all roll together. It’s something I grew with.” The journey so far has been great for the phenomenal deejay/music artist “because I’m happy,” he admitted. “I grew into the music industry. I did not just wake up one morning and blow and become a sensation or anything like that. I have paid my dues and I’m still in that process and I’m not stopping. It’s not fluke; it’s been hard work and growth you get. I t’s been step by step. You can see the journey. That growth is my key. It’s not a one hit wonder. I happened organically.” Going through his catalogues shows quite a packed journey in the nightlife scene in Lagos prior to becoming one of the most sorts after deejays in Nigeria. “I started off in Modex Lounge in Ajao Estate back in 2010. That was my first scene in the nightlife. From there I moved on to The Place in Ikeja in 2012. I was in Club O Reloaded Yaba in 2013. “I did Quilox in 2014 for about six years before I left Quilox shortly before Covid in 2020. Covid slowed down everything there was no nightlife. I have so many other places I have played apart from Quilox. Like Buzz Bar, Play Empire Columbia, Crossroads, Eko Hotel, Vertigo Bar Elegushi, and a whole lot. But basically my major nightlife scene was Quilox. “I later became the entertainment director at Zorya Night Club till now. I was the residence DJ at Industry Night for about three years. I was also on radio SoundCity FM. Back to the club scene, I have a series of parties called The Vibes Parties. There is The Vibes Day Party we do every year sometime around Easter, and also during Independence period. Then we have The Vibes of The Year which is like the major concert we do in December 20th or 19th.” Consequence owns a DJ Academy, a recording studio and a lounge. He also revealed that he has a Nightclub in the works.