 Ferdinand Ekechukwu With a music concert billed to hold today at the Tafawa Balewa Square, Lagos, which demands only those with Permanent Voters Cards or temporary voter slips be allowed entry barely 48 hours after he dropped his latest album ‘BAHD’, Folarin Falana aka Falz is clearly championing an enlightenment of some sort which underlines the conscious influence and political undertone his existing songs and popularity has embraced. His fifth body of work, BAHD comes three years after the ‘music activist’ last studio album, ‘Moral Instruction’, in which he sampled three songs of the late Afrobeat icon, Fela Anikulapo Kuti, and dealt extensively with socio-political themes including government corruption, religious hypocrisy and terrorism, and failing moral standards on the part of Nigerians. This he evidenced in songs like ‘This is Nigeria’, ‘Senator’, ‘My People’ and ‘Wehdone Sir’. But in ‘Bahd,’ listeners are enjoined to expect less didacticism but a more fun, sexy, and flamboyant side of Falz the rapper, songwriter, activist and actor as he covers diverse subjects through his rich writing ability to traverse different styles and sounds which makes him special featuring songs – Another Me, Pull Up, All Night, Inside, Gentleman and Knee Down – in the album which encompasses Hip Hop, Afropop. The new album, released under his self-owned record label, Bahd Guys Entertainment, comprises 12 tracks and features Nigerian stars like Tiwa Savage, The Cavemen, BNXN, LAX, Chike, and new Mavin Records signee BoySpyce. Evidently, the new album is named after his record label, and it is another solid addition to the Falz catalog of projects. His previous albums include ‘Wazup Guy (2014)’, ‘Stories That Touch (2015)’, 27 (2017)’. The ‘BAHD’ album right from inception drew the attention of music lovers following the mini docu-series by Falz introducing the project.  The award-winning rapper had earlier taken to his social media platform to share an extensive tracklist of songs off the album. As anticipation for the album builds-up, after promising fans last month that he will release a new album, Falz made good his promise. A day to the release of his latest project, the singer hosted a private party in Lagos where he invited close friends and family to listen to the album. Falz the Bahd Guy artist has been active since 2009, and became well-known with the Yemi Alade and Poe assisted single, “Marry Me”.