Sexual dysfunction refers to a persistent difficulty with sexual desire/ response, arousal, or orgasm or pain.  It affects approximately 30% of men and 40% of women and can affect any age although  is more common in those with increasing age as it is related to a decline in health associated with aging. It is even more common in couples dealing with infertility. Sexual issues that interfere with intercourse and prevent conception can have serious consequences for couples. Infertility can be caused by issues with any phase of the sexual response, such as desire, arousal, orgasm, and pain disorders. This can manifest as a lack of desire to engage in sex (diminished libido), inability to have or maintain an erection (erectile dysfunction), difficulties releasing sperm (premature and retarded ejaculation), and vaginal muscle tightness that prevents intercourse (vaginismus), all preventing a person from experiencing satisfaction from sexual activity. This week our focus will be on sexual dysfunction in male which is known as Erectile Dysfunction. WHAT IS ERECTILE DYSFUNCTION (ED)? Erectile dysfunction (impotence) is the inability to obtain and maintain a firm enough erection for sexual intercourse. Having occasional erection problems is not necessarily a cause for concern. But having erectile dysfunction on a regular basis can cause stress, affect self-confidence, and contribute to friction in a relationship. ED can also be an indication of an underlying health condition that requires treatment, as well as a risk factor for heart disease. ED can certainly contribute to male infertility because it interferes with ejaculation, which is required for the sperm to enter the vaginal canal and seek out the woman’s egg. Infertility, on the other hand, can cause anxiety and even depression, both of which contribute to ED. Furthermore, conceiving pressures can cause performance anxiety, which can prevent a man from having an erection. As you can see, erectile dysfunction and infertility are strongly intertwined, as one can lead to the other. The following are some of the outlined causes of erectile dysfunction: