 Segun Awofadeji in Bauchi Bauchi State Governor, Senator Bala Mohammed has been declared the winner of the rerun gubernatorial primary election of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state. The rerun primary election took place yesterday at the Zaranda Hotel, Bauchi.Mohammed had recently lost his bid to secure the presidential ticket of the PDP during the presidential primary where he polled 20 votes. This prompted his quest to seek the gubernatorial ticket held in trust for him by the Secretary to the State Government, Mr Ibrahim Kashim Mohammed. Chairman of the Electoral Committee of the election, Murtala Damagum, while declaring the results of the election, said that there are a total of 656 delegates in the state.He explained that 20 of the delegates are national delegates from each of the 20 local government areas of the state. Damagum added that the remaining 636 delegates cut across the 323 electoral wards of the state.Announcing the results, Damagum, said that 10 delegates were absent, 650 accredited and 646 delegates voted.According to him, Governor Mohammed secured all the 646 votes that were cast. “I, Hon. Murtala Damagum, by the power vested on me as an Electoral Officer on this occasion, having satisfied all the electoral processes, do hereby, declare our last presidential aspirant and our new gubernatorial aspirant, Senator Bala Mohammed, the winner. “He had the total votes of 646 complete votes, he is hereby declared the winner and he is returned elected,” he declared. In his acceptance speech, Mohammed expressed gratitude to the Secretary to the State government, who had won the first gubernatorial primary election held last week but stepped down for him. He said: “On behalf of myself, my family and the Peoples Democratic Party, I thank God for this day and moment, and I thank the PDP family and the people of Bauchi for giving me the opportunity. “You are aware that have gone on a solo trip to run for the presidency of Nigeria and that did not work but today, I must thank my brother, the Secretary to the State government who felt that I should be allowed to go for a second term by stepping down for me. “What he did is not only a sign of loyalty but a spirit of comradeship which he expressed and I will not take that for granted. I am very grateful to God, I’m grateful to the PDP family, and I’m grateful to him (SSG). I will not disappoint him and I must also thank our national leadership for also accepting Kassim was declared the winner of the first gubernatorial primary election held last week but stepped down to pave the way for governor Mohammed.As a way of rewarding Kassim, the Bauchi State governor reappointed him as the SSG.