 Remi Dairo is a Senior Coach and Principal Consultant at Producitvate Plus USA. He is also the President of the Institute of Productivity and Business Innovation Management (IPBIM), a globally focused African institution of productivity and innovation learning. The institution is in partnership with some of the world’s best institutions around the globe. Dairo’s passion for a productive and innovative nation sparked up different brainstorming and strategy sessions with his team; researching into different dimensions towards solving Africa’s most daunting challenges; productivity and innovation in the contemporary realities, eventually the birth of the School of Productivity in 2007 with thousands of graduates all over the world and later got upgraded to Institute of Productivity and Business Innovation Management (IPBIM) in 2016. Dairo is a globally renowned Productivity Expert and UK Certified Life Coach with a focus on personal productivity. He has a diploma in Workplace Psychology and is certified Neuro-Linguistic programming (NLP). He is also the principal consultant of Solvere Word Consult/Productivate Plus. In the sIace of 13 years, he has completed up to 700 unique projects on coaching and workplace productivity strategies for a number of world-class organisations such as Federal Government of Nigeria’s Amnesty programme, Chevron, Total, WAPCO Lafarge, L.M ERICSON, Acaltel, Covenant University, Guaranty Trust Bank, Access Bank, First Bank of Nigeria, Etisalat, University of Ghana, University of Cambridge Publishing, Microsoft, Nairobi, Kenya, Walmart amongst others. His books, Product-Activity: 12 keys to unleash human performance, and Workers Companion with the 4k productivity method have been widely read and applied in the workplace globally. Dairo’s new book – Improving Organisational Productivity: Defining Philosophy, Product, Process, and People that he co-authored with John Heap, President of World Confederation Productivity Science – is in high demand on Amazon. He developed a Personal Productivity Programme (PPP), a software that helps people to find their personal productivity capacity in life, business, and career. As a life coach, Dairo has been featured on various international and local media on different ‘Productivity’ programmes such as Channels Television, TV Continental Intl, The Punch, The Guardian, The Sun, New Telegraph, The Nation, THISDAY, Business Day, Star FM, Nigeria Info, Radio Continental, Metro FM, amongst others. He was a voice from Africa on issues of productivity and innovation at the Nigeria/UK Diaspora Conference in the United Kingdom and World Productivity Congress, Halifax, Canada and he was the only African who spoke at the World Productivity Congress held in Bahrain in 2017 amongst many other conferences within and outside the continent of Africa. Till date, evancarmichael.com has consistently rated Dairo as Africa’s number one Productivity Expert among the Top 100 Productivity Experts to follow on Twitter. He is fondly referred to as “Mr Productivity” in different media and at other fora, they refer to him as “Apostle of Productivity”. He has over 100 thousand followers on social media where he weekly furnishes the platform with productivity knowledge and discoveries. He is a co-founder of the Productivity Training Hub; an online e-learning platform for becoming a productivity expert and upgrading skills in life, career, and business. He advises governments and organisations in Africa on issues of productivity and Innovation. He features as a panelist on Who-is-Next-Titan; the foremost Start-Up Entrepreneurial show in Nigeria. Dairo is a graduate of the University of Ibadan (Nigeria) and his post-graduate programme in Education Management from the University of Lagos (Nigeria). He has Strategic Management and Innovation Specialisation (Copenhagen Business School, Denmark) and Strategic Leadership and Management (the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Chicago) Fellow. He is a member of the Association of Productivity Specialist (USA) and International Coaching Federation (USA) and he is a certified SME consultant, USA, Accredited Management Consultant, Canada. Fellow Member (FIIM) of the Institute of Information Management (IIM), Africa. Fellow Member (FIPBIM) of the Institute of Productivity and Business Innovation Management (IPBIM).Africa. He is the chairman Kemi Remi-Dairo Hearing Foundation, an NGO based in Nigeria and the US. Dairo is a board member of the Life Coaches Association of Nigeria (LCAN) and Passion House International.He was awarded Global Productivity Researcher by the World Confederation of Productivity Science at the World Productivity Congress in 2017. He was also awarded recently amongst few coaching in Nigeria; Master Coach Award in honour of his contribution to the coaching industry in Nigeria 2019.