 Hammed Shittu in Ilorin Governorship candidate of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Kwara state in the next year general elections, Alhaji Shuaib Yahman Abdullahi, has appealed to the state governor, Alhaji AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq to obey Supreme  Court’s  ruling that void the continue using of Transitional Implementation Committee (TIC) in the 16 local government councils and conduct  fresh  local government councils poll in the state. The apex court had about  three months  ago quashed the continue using of  TIC in the 16 local government councils. The apex court also ruled that  the continue using of TIC in the 16 local government councils in the state was illegal and hence called for the conduct of local government councils poll in the state so as to return democratic governance at the grassroots. Since the ruling on the issue,  the state governor, Alhaji AbdulRazaq is yet to implement the court  ruling in the state. But, in a statement issued in Ilorin yesterday  to  mark the 2022 Democracy Day celebration, the PDP canddiate said that, “the return of democratic governance to the 16 local government councils will go a long way of  stopping further pilfering of  collective patrimony of the state.” The statement read: “Today is another wonderful day when we remember the labour of our heroes past, their sacrifices for us to live a life of freedom and equal opportunities, and strive even for a better future. “As we remember their sacrifices, we should work in unison to fight corruption, lawlessness and executive rascality prevalent in our State of Harmony, Kwara State. It is our collective responsibility to make the state better and the future of children secured. “Today, I call on the out-going Kwara state government to, without further delay and in compliance with the ruling of the apex court of the land, organise local government elections and stop further pilfering of our collective patrimony. “I call on Kwarans from all nooks and crannies of the country to come out and collect their PVC, the only document to guarantee a secured future and ensure that our democracy works for us. “May God who determines the direction of everything, direct wisdom, honour, mercy, good health and prosperity to us and our families. “I wish everyone a happy democracy day celebration”.