 Igbawase Ukumba in Lafia The forum of statutory delegates across the country yesterday appealed to President Mohammadu Buhari to support the presidential bid of a former Rivers State Governor, Mr. Rotimi Amaechi, to emerge the presidential candidate of the All Progressive Congress (APC). A Former Member of the Nasarawa State House of Assembly, Dr. Kassim Muhammad, in a statement after the forum’s emergency meeting in Abuja, said that Ameachi remained the most popular and acceptable candidate that could defeat the former Vice President, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar of the PDP at the poll. Muhammad said: “As a former speaker of the Rivers State House of Assembly for eight years; chairman conference of speakers forum for eight years; governor of Rivers State for eight years, and two term chairman of Governor’s Forum, two term Director General, Buhari Campaign Council and two term Minister of Transportation. No presidential aspirant in the party has such diverse experience, credentials and, his footprints in all the positions he had held stand him out among his opponents. “Ameachi has both the legislative and executive experience. He has traversed the nooks and crannies of the country and has seen the challenges faced by Nigerians and is ready to address them once he is elected.” He appealed to Buhari to present Ameachi to APC’s governors as his preferred choice, adding that only Ameachi is qualified to take over from Buhari and consolidate on his achievements. He promised to work assiduously to deliver Ameachi in all the 36 states and the FCT for the party to retain power at the presidency. Muhammad said: “As a mark of respect, the statutory delegates were ready to vote massively for Ameachi without collecting any penny from him to show that Ameachi indeed deserved Nigerians’ supports at this material time, but the unfortunate situation brought us where we are. “We are hoping that, given the presidential ticket, we shall all go out to mobilize support and ensure he wins landslide during the elections.”