 Deji Elumoye in Abuja President Muhammadu Buhari has felicitated with renowned industrialist, Dr. Samuel Adedoyin and his classmate in military school, Hon. Juventus Ojukwu. The President, in a release issued yesterday by his Media Adviser, Femi Adesina, rejoiced with Prince Samuel Ogundele Adedoyin as he marks his 86th birthday on June 4, 2022, sharing the auspicious occasion of joy and thanksgiving with family, friends and business associates. President Buhari congratulated the consummate businessman for his vision, and courage to translate dreams into reality, with a ripple effect on the economy, particularly in manufacturing, banking and real estate. He noted the large-heartedness of the business mogul, who set up a foundation to cater for the handicapped and underprivileged in the country, extending the good gesture by providing scholarships and sponsoring health care for many. President Buhari believed Adedoyin’s wealth of knowledge and experience in entrepreneurship remains an asset for the country, while thanking him for providing a ladder for others to rise in their careers. The President prayed for the well-being of the industrialist and his family. President Buhari also sent warm felicitations to his classmate at the Military Training School in 1962, Hon. Juventus Chijioke Ojukwu, as he turns 80. The President, in another release issued yesterday by his Media Adviser, Femi Adesina, recalled the grueling drills and trainings with the then cadet officer-in-training, and how they eventually got commissioned as officers of the Nigerian Army. President Buhari praised 60 years of relationship with the former House of Representatives member, who represented Idemili Federal Constituency, in the Second Republic, and wished him longer days in good health, and greater service to God and humanity. The President equally lauded the All Progressives Congress stalwart for his abiding faith in Nigeria, pledging that the country will realise her vast potentials, despite all odds.