Fidelis David in Akure The Chairman of the South-west Governors’ Forum and Governor of Ondo State, Mr. Oluwarotimi Akeredolu (SAN), has congratulated the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and winner of Saturday’s governorship election in Ekiti State, Mr. Biodun Abayomi Oyebanji.Governor Akeredolu also saluted the good people of the state over the smooth conduct of the exercise. In a statement issued on Sunday by his Chief Press Secretary, Richard Olatunde, the governor described the resounding victory as an unequivocal testament to the acceptability of the APC and sterling performance of the incumbent, Dr. John Kayode Fayemi, in the state.Akeredolu said: “I congratulate my brother, Biodun Oyebanji Abayomi, on this victory. I rejoice with our great party, the APC. I salute the people of Ekiti for their resilience and peaceful conduct. This victory is for the people of Ekiti State and all lovers of democracy across the country. It is a mark of renewed commitment of the people to our party, the APC. “No doubt, BAO’s vast experience in public service is an asset that would be deployed for the good of the people of Ekiti State. As a former Commissioner, Chief of Staff and later Secretary to the State Government, the governor-elect is well equipped to take the state to the next level.“I have no doubt that BAO will consolidate on the gains of the outgoing administration of Governor Fayemi and leverage on the continuity of our party in government to further deliver dividends of good governance to the people.”According to him, “This is our first win since the emergence of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu as the presidential candidate of our party. This election is, however, symbolic as it shows the preparedness and commitment of our people to vote enmass for the APC in the next year’s general election.”Governor Akeredolu also saluted the security agencies and the umpire, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), for conducting credible election in Ekiti notwithstanding pockets of hiccups.He hailed the people of the state for voting continuity, while urging them to do more for Tinubu in next year’s presidential election.