 Mary Nnah It was all glamour, glitz, and funfair at the Head of Office of Nigerian Breweries Plc in Iganmu as the trio of Flavour N’abania, Yul Edochie and Phyno renewed their brand ambassador contracts with Life Continental Lager Beer. As a leading South Eastern beer brand that is promoting Igbo Hi-Life music, beliefs, tradition, and cultural values of Igbos, Life continental Lager beer has also been at the forefront of stimulating the progress of its consumers through its numerous grassroots initiatives. Speaking during the press conference, the Senior Brand Manager, Life Continental Lager Beer, Aishat Anaekwe, stated that “Life Continental Beer pioneered regional brewing in Nigeria and has maintained leadership in the South-east region’s booming market for decades. “Today, we are excited to announce the renewal contract with Flavour, Phyno, and Yul Edochie. This collaboration with Life Continental Lager Beer underscores the brand’s dedication to the Igbo values of industriousness, resourcefulness, and enterprise – values that Flavour, Yul, and Phyno aptly embody. “Just as Life Continental Beer defines the Igbo in every consumer, these three successful and industrious entertainers exude the qualities which exemplify the typical Igbo man.” The deal which was signed at the Nigerian Breweries Plc corporate head office in Lagos is to run for two years during which Flavour, Yul, and Phyno will appear in Life Continental Beer advertising and marketing campaigns. They will also feature in the brand’s online assets and make special appearances at events and activations. According to Flavour N’nabania, the new deal shows that Hi-Life music is paving the way in the Nigerian entertainment industry. He affirmed that “this new deal with Life Continental is an example of the rebound of progress that Igbos have continued to be associated with in their business and industry. The life Beer brand has always been a symbol of the Igbo heritage. If you go anywhere and you hear Life Continental Beer, at once, the Igbo man and his entrepreneurial spirit come to mind. I’m very proud to be associated with a beer I can finally call my own, a beer that pushes the frontiers of progress.” In a similar vein, Chibuzor Nelson Azubuike, popularly known as Phyno expressed satisfaction about his new deal with Life Continental Lager Beer. “The Igbos are the vibe that holds Nigeria together and Life Continental Lager Beer has continued to demonstrate its love for the Igbo culture. Everywhere you go, you will always find a successful Igbo man. Despite our challenging past, we have inspired the greatness of the country. I am so thrilled about the renewed partnership with Life Continental Lager Beer”.