 Adibe Emenyonu in Benin-city In order to improve security in line with community policing in Edo State, former Inspector General of Police (IG), Dr. Solomon Arase, and seven other indigenes of the state yesterday donated security kits and accoutrements to the seven local government areas of Edo South senatorial district. He also gave out scholarships to eight medical students and one law student from indigent homes as part of his 66th birthday celebration. Arase disclosed that the security kits were donated in conjunction with Chief (Mrs.) Rosemary Osula Mku-Atu, S.B Osagie, Osa Owieadolor, Mr. Kede Aihie, Dr. Anthony Ediae, Mr. Eric Osagie, Mr. Osa Director, and himself (Arase) as the coordinator, while his foundation, Solomon Ehigiator Arase Foundation, takes charge of the scholarship awards. The former IG, who disclosed this in his welcome address in Benin-city, capital of Edo State, during the maiden edition of the Annual Lecture Series/Scholarship Awards with the theme: ‘Citizens in Security Management: Edo State Model’, said the items donated included a Toyota Sienna, 500 motorcycles, 1,400 customised T-shirts (200 per LGA), 1,400 customised fez caps (200 per LGA), 1,400 whistle, raincoats (30 per LGA), and 30 touch lights per LGA. The former police helmsman, therefore, appealed to well-meaning Edolites to contribute to the pioneering efforts by the patriots mentioned above to support the vigilance operatives with stipends and other relevant items such as walkie-talkies, cell phones, denim trousers, and canvas/boots. “It is with deep sense of humility and strong optimism of effective policing and security future for Edo State and Nigeria that I welcome everyone, social cultural groups, and other strategic security stakeholders across Edo State to this maiden Annual Lecture Series / Scholarship Awards with the theme: ‘Citizens Inclusion in Security Management: Edo State Model’. “The rich array of strategic stakeholders here is clear testimony to the renewed determination of indigenes of Edo State to make personal sacrifices in support of law enforcement agencies towards presenting a common front that will address security challenges that are threatening our national values and development,” he said. He, therefore, commended all the compatriots who have committed enormous resources to put together the donations of kits and accoutrements to assist the seven local government areas in Edo south senatorial. On the scholarship awards, he said it was a means to immortalise his late mother, Mrs. Mercy Igbe-Arase (Nee Ifidon), and advance her legacies by incorporation a Foundation in her honour, who gave his life direction a true meaning, taught him the virtues of cares, honesty and integrity, and imposed on him a very strict discipline that acted as the foundation spring that propelled him to the pinnacle of his professional career. Declaring the event open, Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, thanked Arase for his initiative to support community policing in the state as well as the support he gave to his administration in the area of security. Obaseki also commended him for the scholarship awards, noting that it is another milestone to improve education and give the less privileged the opportunity to get quality education.