 Edward Aibangbe has become the number 22nd golfer to be enlisted on the Benin Club Golf Section (BCGS) Hole-In-One Role of Honour board. Aibangbe (hcp 24) who got his handicap in July 2021 joined the league of hole-in-one golfers during BCGS Hackers Kitty on Wednesday which coincidentally fell on birthday of the Chairman, Board of Trustees, Hackers Kitty Group, Dan Sule. Aibangbe used iron seven and ultra-ball to achieve the result at hole two, having played par at hole one, while the next tee short ball landed some few metres away from the hole, and eventually rolled into the hole two. The elated Aibangbe in a chat with sports writers stated that golf is a game of life, and that sometimes one would not know what to get until after each game. He said: “You can expect to play very well and it will not come. You can be in funny mood but may affect your game. Today, I came in good spirit. In hole one, I played par, so at the hole two, I just played a tee short, the ball landed some few metres away from the hole, and the ball rolled into the hole. “So, if you ask me, it’s a game of luck that happened. As often said by golfers, I followed my skills and it works for me. To be honest, I admired golfers that played hole in one. “Sometimes, I go to the board, look at the names of people on it, I just wonder if they actually intended to play it or not. The lady who played it last time, I asked her if she intended, but said no, that it just happened. “It gives me a sense of fulfilment and make me feel that efforts put to the game is not wasted. It gives me more challenge to enhance my game. Just 11 months ago I started playing golf, I feel something special in the game, that I will enjoy more in golf. “It’s a wakeup call to those who recently got their handicap to be encouraged and be determined in their games. They can achieve that feat too in due season. “I have won several kitties and even won the Hackers Kitty Group End of the Year Tournament in December. Every week, it is either I win or be among the best three golfers at the kitty. It’s just happening that I am dominating hackers’ kitty.”