 Bennett  Oghifo Coscharis Motors Plc, a foremost automobile dealer and sole representative of the Renault brand in Nigeria, has announced a free service voucher worth N150,000.00 for every Renault vehicle purchased from the company. Making the announcement during the recently concluded Lagos Motor Fair, the General Manager, Renault Sales, Coscharis Motors, Sola Adigun said, “We want to use the opportunity of our presence at this motor fair to announce to our customers and prospects that we will be offering a free service voucher worth N150, 000.00 (one hundred and fifty thousand naira only) for every Renault vehicle purchased from Coscharis Motors at this motor fair and afterwards.” Explaining further, Adigun mentioned that the free service voucher is one of the exciting giveaways, which Renault customers stand to gain from buying a Renault vehicle from Coscharis Motors Plc. However, the free service voucher offer promo extends beyond the just concluded motor fair to all Coscharis showrooms across the country until July 30th this year. Also still available for customers to have an easy access to purchase any of their preferred Renault vehicles is the finance scheme from the sister company, Coscharis Mobility that provides payment spread over a period of time after 30 percent initial deposit of the principal value. Also commenting during the event, General Manager Marketing and Corporate Communications, Coscharis Group, Abiona Babarinde said, “Currently, we are still assembling two variants of the Renault brand locally, at our assembly plant in Awoyaya, Lagos namely Logan and Duster respectively. Clearly, we have the capacity to add more variants to our local assembly line and hope that the time will soon come when the infrastructural deficit in the country will improve to give conducive business environment to investors like Coscharis that still believe in our nation Nigeria. Then we shall gladly increase the number of locally assembled variants and probably assemble all the variants that we market in the country. More importantly for us is that this gives us the opportunity to deliver value to the bigger economy in terms of job employment amongst other economic advantages with the sustenance and expansion of the local assemblies across the country”. Likewise, Coscahris offers trade-in option to customers who currently own a Renault vehicle and wish to exchange for a new model. Renault was one of the brands which put up an outstanding presence at the recently concluded Lagos Motor Fair. Five variants of the brand were put on display for visitors at the fair, including Logan and Duster, which are both assembled in Nigeria. Others are Koleos, Oroch and Kwid respectively. The Koleos The Koleos is designed with a sense of detail and personality enhanced by its sleek appearance and athletic curves. Behind its chic urban styling, Koleos has the DNA of a true 4X4. The ALL MODE 4×4-i technology allows you to select the transmission mode that your vehicle will need to be equally at home on dirt, mud or sand as it is on tarmac. Koleos comes with a range of driver assistance technologies including active emergency braking, blind spot detection system, easy trunk access and R-Link 2 media system. Duster Customers can choose from 1.6-Litre to 2.0Litre engine but whichever engine, it is built with a robust off-roader looks. With the superb ground clearance, the Duster is a practical and durable vehicle for the Nigerian road. The interior of the All-new Duster reflects its generous, adventure-seeking nature. The spacious cabin is bright and reassuring. The driver and passenger seats provide plenty of support to ensure your comfort wherever you go. The upholstery features a high-quality finish, as does the dashboard, where particular emphasis was placed on ergonomic design. Simple and intuitive, the multimedia system Media Nav with touching screen allows you to navigate through all the different functionalities: navigation, phone, radio, Aux/USB ports and Bluetooth® connection to listen to your favorite music. It also comes with hands free card to lock and unlock the doors from a distance as well as assist to start the air-conditioning before getting into the car. Logan New Renault Logan has an even more modern and dynamic design. With redesigned front and rear end panels featuring the new Renault brand light signature, New Renault Logan is a beauty to behold. New Renault Logan has 5 generous seats to comfortably accommodate all your passengers. Enjoy useful and smart new storage areas, including a phone pouch and a front passenger side net pouch. There’s a new 12 V output in the rear for charging your devices. There’s also a 1/3-2/3* split-fold rear bench seat and a spacious boot to transport everything you need in the way that suits you. Combine utility and pleasure for a journey you’re sure to love. *Depending on the version. Logan’s ground clearance level (155-164mm) enhances its capacity to cope with extremely poor road surfaces (potholes, cobbles, uneven surfaces. The mechanics, bodywork (opening panels), air conditioning/ventilation system and passenger compartment all specially designed to cope with certain countries’ environments where dust is omnipresent. Logan has an excellent thermal comfort standard (the vehicle is designed to deal with “extremely hot” conditions. Kwid Inside the Renault Kwid, there’s plenty of headroom, legroom and elbowroom for the driver plus up to 4 passengers. There are ingenious storage spaces everywhere. The Renault KWID’s class-leading boot space of 290L can be extended up to 1100L, making it the perfect partner for a long road trip. According to Babarinde, “We are the sole franchise for Renault brands in Nigeria. Currently, we have top-notch sales and service centres across Nigeria with major dealership outlets in Abuja, Lagos, Kano, Port Harcourt and Uyo respectively.”