 *Lauds large turnout of people at Ifelodun state constituency campaign rally Yinka Kolawole in Osogbo Apparently basking in the last weekend’s success the All Progressive Congress (APC) recorded in Ekiti State’s governorship election, the Osun State Governor, Mr. Adegboyega Oyetola, has expressed conviction that he would be re-elected on July 16 governorship election. Oyetola claimed that his bid for a second term in office has been ordained by God and the good people of the state. He recalled how the people of Ifeledun voted massively for him during the APC’s governorship primary elections few months ago, again called on them to do it again in the forthcoming governorship election. He maintained that the APC remained the political party to beat in the coming election and affirmed his readiness to make Osun the envy and pride of other states in Nigeria if he is re-elected. “Since I didn’t disappoint you with my performance in office during my first term in office, I will equally not disappoint you by God’s grace if you get me returned as your governor. “I urge everyone not to be deceived by the opposition parties in this state and elsewhere. Do not get cajoled by their unwarranted political intrigues and shenanigans,. Don’t allow them to make you swear to an oath of allegiance to get you hoodwinked into doing their biddings, and above all, do not sell your future and that of your children with vote buying antics which they are known for. Vote buying does not pay. Don’t engage in it. “Cast your vote only for APC as there’s no any other party that has the best for you in terms of good governance and development than the APC which I represent as its only candidate to be returned as governor for a second term in Osun,” he said. Oyetola also used the campaign rally to charge registered voters who are yet to collect their Permanent Voter Cards, (PVCs) to go and collect them as it remained the only constitutionally recognised means of electing the candidate of their choice in the coming election. He also commend the people of Ekiti State for their wise choice in electing the new governor under the political banner of APC last Saturday with a declaration that “Emi lokan l’Osun,” meaning: It is my turn in Osun on July 16 governorship election.