 Kunle Adewale The final games of the 2022 MILO Secondary Schools’ Basketball Championships in both the girls and boys’ categories have been slated for June 30, at the Indoor Sports Hall of the National Stadium in Surulere, Lagos. This was made known yesterday at the Nestlé corporate office, at Ilupeju in which the draw to determine the pattern of play at the finals  also held. Twelve teams will play in the finals: six each in the male and female categories. The finalists include Government Secondary School, Numan, Adamawa State; Akpur College, Gboko, Benue State; St. Jude’s Girls Secondary School, Amarata, Bayelsa State; David Hall College, Obalende, Ikoyi, Lagos State; Government Girls Secondary School, Bukavu, Kano State; and Queen Amina College, Sabon-Tasha, Kaduna State in the girls’ category. In the boy’s category are Dutse Model International Secondary School, Jigawa State; Government Secondary School, Karu, FCT; King Amachree Academy, Port Harcourt, Rivers State; Topfield College, Ajegunle, Apapa, Lagos; Victorroti Private Secondary School, Idi-Aba, Abeokuta, Ogun State and Bishop Dimieari Grammar School, Obom, Bayelsa State. The Championship started this year with over 10,000 teams participating at the state preliminaries.  The winners from the first stage went on to the Regional Conference stage where the finalists who will play in the national finale emerged. The Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Nestlé Nigeria PLC, Mr. Wassim El-Husseini said: “For over two decades now, Nestlé has been at the forefront of grassroots sports development in Nigeria through the Nestlé MILO Secondary Schools’ Basketball Championship. We continue to do our utmost to help shape a healthier and happier generation of Nigerians by encouraging them to participate in sporting activities. MILO Basketball Championship also provides a platform to help children imbibe values that set the right foundation for their future.  They learn grit – perseverance through hardship, courage to overcome fear, ability to work in a team, self-belief, respect, and leadership.” The draws grouped the six teams in the girls and boys’ categories each into groups ‘A’ and ‘B’.