 Emmanuel Addeh in Abuja The Nigerian Petroleum Upstream Petroleum Regulatory Commission (NUPRC) yesterday confirmed that the fire incident within the vicinity of Caritas University in Enugu, may have been triggered by a suspected associated gas reservoir leak. Students and management of the school had been in a state of apprehension following a fire outbreak in the school compound which some residents said  started penultimate Wednesday morning. In a statement signed by the Chief Executive Officer of the NUPRC in Abuja, Mr. Gbenga Komolafe, the commission stated that there was no pipeline right of way in the area, adding that the incident was caused by the activities of some contractors who were drilling a water borehole on the premises of the university. On receipt of the incident report, May 26, the NUPRC stated that alongside other related agencies, it immediately carried out an investigation and discovered that it happened in the process of drilling a water well with a target drill depth of 400 meters for the university. In the course of the drilling, it explained that pressurised seepage was encountered after about 200 meters and fumes were gushing out of the drilled hole. “One of the workers who suspected the fumes to be gas seepage reportedly wanted to confirm his suspicion, and in the process introduced a source of ignition which led to the fire outbreak. “It was the unfortunate action that provided a stronger basis for the qualification of the fumes as associated gas,” Komolafe stated. Following the fire outbreak, the NUPRC reported that the drilling contractor swiftly removed the drill pipes, demobilised the rig and immediately notified the Enugu State Government of the incident. The state and federal fire services which were mobilised to the site, it noted battled the fire for more than two days, stressing that the university authority cordoned off the site and restricted access to the area. In addition, it directed the immediate discontinued usage of all facilities within the affected area, including a nearby hall used for examinations . While no fatality was recorded as a result of the incident, the commission reported that an employee of the drilling company sustained first-degree burns, but was treated and discharged from the hospital. “The preliminary investigation revealed the following: There is no pipeline right of way in the area. There is a continuous supply of gas from the underground source evidenced by the continuous fire which is suggestive of the presence of shallow gas which may be associated with coal bed methane gas or gas seepage. “In both cases, it may not necessarily be a reservoir accumulation but associated gas which the drilling process provided a flow line; a development similar to incidents associated with coal mines. “Plans are being finalised by Caritas University to carry out Geophysical Resistivity Survey of the area from June 3 and 4, 2022 to acquire data that will give better insight on the near surface gas concentration in the area and its potential spread,” it noted. Added to that, it said  an all-inclusive stakeholder engagement took place in Enugu on June 1, 2022 for alignment deliberations and mutual commitment to achieve the immediate killing of the fire and stoppage of the gas leakage. “NUPRC is proactively collaborating with all relevant stakeholders and is determined to deploy appropriate technology to ensure that the fire is put off and the source of gas leakage is sealed to ensure environmental sustainability and safety of lives and property. “Already, the commission has identified an indigenous company with verified competence and proven track record in managing related fire incidents; and intervention options are being considered. This will be finalised after another visit scheduled for June 6, 2022,” it stated.