 The All Progressives Congress (APC) primary for the determination of who will bear the presidential flag was just completed. The result was not entirely surprising, but considering the efforts that people poured into it, it was still something to mull over. After all, someone purchased the APC nomination and declaration of interest forms for N100 million and still did not get a single delegate’s vote. Thus, aspirants like Vice President Yemi Osinbajo still had it better. Bola Tinubu emerged as the presidential candidate for the APC. While he is preparing to enter the tug of political war with former Vice President Atiku Abubakar and the others, there are some on his side whose political futures have become even more obscure. One such person is Osinbajo. However, with even more obscure futures are those that supported these aspirants. Former Chairman of the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS), Babatunde Fowler, comes to mind. According to those in the know, Fowler was one of the brains working behind the curtains to see Osinbajo emerge as APC chief candidate and go on to become Nigeria’s president come 2023. Of course, Osinbajo lost the presidential ticket to Tinubu, leaving Fowler’s alleged dreams in the dust. As things stand now, the former FIRS boss cannot do anything apart from retiring from behind the curtains and becoming a hermit. Then again, this is nothing new to him. Fowler may have spent the majority of his life as a taxman, but he became a man of the front pages when he could not secure a second term in FIRS and had to leave. Unofficially, however, it is alleged that he failed to meet up with the expectations of the powers that be and had to be punished. Ever since, even though Fowler’s name came up in high places, it never stayed on the front pages of newspapers. Until his longtime friend, Osinbajo declared his presidential ambition. Fowler’s name began to be uttered with heartfelt regard once again. Alas, now that Osinbajo lost, Fowler’s name may fall into obscurity and disuse once again.