 A former Teacher at Victory High School has disclosed that the reason why the school produced lots of Lawyers in its early days, was that the school had a student court that sat every Saturday to handle cases of indiscipline amongst its students, adding that the court operated just like a normal or regular court in session. The Teacher, Rev. Dr Titus Aderemi disclosed that setting up the court became important because both the Founder of the School Chief Christian Francis Ipoola Olaniyan, and the founding teachers believed that discipline must be maintained in the school. “We believe in discipline and law, and the result is the large number of Lawyers and Judges that we have produced”. He also discussed that the School also produced a former President of Nigeria, in the person of the late President Umaru Musa Yar’adua, who according to him came to the school to retake his final secondary school examination between 1974-76. Dr Aderemi was speaking during a seminar titled, “The Private Sector Contribution to Educational Development in Nigeria”, put together by Victory High School and Victory College Old Students Association in celebration of the life and times of the Founder of the School, Chief Christian Francis Ipoola Olaniyan. In his Keynote Address, the Guest Speaker, Dr  Kunle Leo Labinjo, traced the coming of private schools in Nigeria to the activities of religious organisations, and concluded that the private sector’s contribution to education is huge, and it will continue to be so until the Government improves on its contribution. Also speaking at the event, the Special Guest of Honour and the Lagos State Commissioner of Education, Hon. Mrs Folashade Adefisayo spoke glowingly about the late Founder of the School. She also stated that the Lagos State Government has improved its education budget, and it is investing heavily in the construction of new schools, particularly with the second legacy school located in Agege which will soon be commissioned by the State Governor. Victory High School/ College Ikeja was founded in 1968 by the late Chief Christian Francis Ipoola Olaniyan who died recently, at the age of 92. #upjudicialsalaries #upjudicialsalaries “I have practised in all the levels of courts, in Nigeria. I know that poor pay for judicial officers, is seriously affecting the quality of judgements and rulings those officers are delivering, and the discharge of other functions associated with their offices.” – Sebastine Hon, SAN