 Food and Beverage (FAB) West Africa, the largest F&B trade show across sub-Saharan Africa, is set to return to Lagos from Tuesday June 14 to Thursday 16 at the Landmark Centre on Victoria Island, Lagos. FAB West Africa has more than 220 exhibitors from five continents taking part. According to the organisers of the show, they have expanded the floor space, which means that FAB West Africa will be the biggest food and beverage fair to ever take place on Nigerian soil. While having an international flavour, the event will place a real focus on promoting Nigerian food and beverage products. Gold Sponsors are Just Food West Africa, Daffy and Nasco. But with more than 40 countries represented, visitors will have an opportunity to find out about the latest local and international food and drink developments and to sample products being launched in Nigeria and the region. The show is being organised by BtoB Events. The Managing Director, Jamie Hill, says: “After the huge success of FAB West Africa 2021, I cannot wait to bring the largest edition of the Food and Beverage West Africa exhibition back to Nigeria. “This exhibition will be the first exhibition to utilise the new third hall at the Landmark Centre, perhaps making it the largest food and beverage exhibition on the African continent.” “This year’s exhibition has seen an incredible increase in demand for exhibition space and will host exhibitors from across 40 countries and 5 continents. The previous edition back in September 2021 was a huge success, despite certain covid and travel restrictions.” Hill added that for this year and the first edition since international travel was relaxed, they have seen a surge in demand for exhibition space. “This exhibition will sell out so should you want to exhibit, get in touch today.” Businesses wanting to book an exhibition stand or to enquire about sponsorship opportunities should contact info@fab-westafrica.com or 0818 381 8456.Free admission is available for visitors who pre register for the event at the website.