Udora Orizu in Abuja One of the senatorial aspirants on the platform of All Progressives Congress (APC) in Abia Central senatorial district, Hon. Sam Onuigbo has urged the party leadership to declare him as the winner of the just concluded primaries, because he was the one that scored the highest number of votes. Recall that during the primary election, Onuigbo who currently represents Ikwuano/Umuahia federal constituency in the House of Representatives secured 157 votes ahead of his rival, Chief Henry Ikoh, who got 152 votes.The lawmaker, in a statement on Saturday lamented that the obvious result of the primaries has suddenly become very difficult for officials who conducted and presided over the exercise to announce. This, he said has created unrest and restiveness among loyal party faithful and the good people of the Senatorial Zone who affirmed their faith in him by giving him the ticket with a 157-152 margin of victory.While cautioning against impunity which he said APC is known to kick against,  the lawmaker expressed optimism that the party will uphold justice and do the needful. The statement read in part, “The reaction of the people is not unexpected given that a totally different person who did not purchase nomination forms nor participated in the primaries is suddenly being thrown up. This is blatant impunity which the APC is known to kick against and which has given our great party the edge over the opposition. The crawling worm of impunity should never be allowed in the corridors of the seat of our party administration. It should be resisted and terminated with precision. I won the primaries in a closely contested primary election where even the State Party Chairman had urged that the loser congratulates the winner in the spirit of sportsmanship. If I was the loser, I would have abided by this admonition by the Chairman of our great party. “While it is said that “anything is possible” in Nigeria, it is imperative that the leadership of the APC upholds the principle of justice which frames our great party and ensures that I am announced as the winner and thus presented to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) as the party’s legitimate flagbearer for Abia Central during the general elections. Despite several machinations, the APC members of Abia Central chose me to fly the party’s flag knowing full well my remarkable and unprecedented capability to not only win elections, but also to effectively deliver. This is critical and our great party needs this at this important time when we must bond together and win elections not just for Abia Central, but other associated elections. I am hopeful that our great party must uphold justice and do the needful.”