 Hammed Shittu in Ilorin Former Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki, at the weekend reiterated the commitment of the leaders and members of the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) in Kwara State to save the state in the 2023 general elections and provide alternative leadership for the populace. Saraki also lauded the unity of purpose among the PDP’s governorship aspirants that participated in the just concluded primaries of the party in Kwara State. He stated this shortly after he met with all the PDP’s governorship aspirants that participated in the just concluded primaries of the party. The governorship aspirants that attended the meeting included Hon. Aliyu Ahman Pategi, Rt. Hon. Ibrahim Bio, Professor Mohammed Gana Yisa, Mr. Shuaibu Yaman Abdullahi (candidate), Hon. Isa Bawa Adamu, Mr. Idris Imam Abubakar, Hon. Abubakar Sadiq Ahmad, Hon. Ndanusa Kawu Adam, Mr. Abubakar Musa Shamaki, Mr. Ayo Joel, Hon. Zakari Mohammed, Mr. M. M. Esanti, Mr. Baba Idris and Mr. Alfa Muhammed Yahaya. Saraki commended the aspirants for agreeing to work together in order to provide an alternative leadership for the people of the state. He noted that “what the PDP needs to win the next elections in Kwara State is to present a common front and ensure that they take the message of unity to all the wards across the state.” He, therefore, promised his unflinching support for all the candidates of the party and urged all the aspirants to make maximum contributions to the coming campaigns. He told all the aspirants that “when our party wins resoundingly in Kwara State as we are set to do, it will be obvious that we are all winners both those whose names are on the ballot and those who are not but have worked diligently for the victory of the party.” Meanwhile, in a communique issued after the meeting and signed by the all 14 aspirants, the PDP governorship aspirants reiterated their determination to work with all leaders in the 16 local government areas to sell the candidate of the party, Yarmah, and the party programmes to the electorate in order to ensure the party’s electoral victory during the next elections. The aspirants also thanked the national leader and the PDP leadership in the state for their sincerity, maturity, and fairness in the process which led to the emergence of the gubernatorial candidate. The aspirants noted that “arriving at a choice candidate was a rigorous and delicate process because all the aspirants are qualified for the post of governor and have the backing of the people at home, particularly the constituents from the five local government areas in Kwara North Senatorial District and, therefore, expressed gratitude to the leadership for successfully navigating through the process in a dignified manner. “We have also collectively reiterated our gratitude and appreciation to the PDP leadership in the state for allowing Kwara North to produce the next governor of the state and promised not to disappoint the people of the state. “We are equally happy that the fact of a Kwara State’s governor from the Kwara North is beginning to be a reality and this is because of the consensus-building, consultative, participatory, and all-inclusive approach adopted by the leadership of the party.” They, however, are “committed to work for the victory of the party in all elections from the presidential, gubernatorial, senatorial, federal, and state constituency representatives and particularly to support our gubernatorial candidate, Alhaji Yahman Abdullahi in winning the next March polls.”