 Kasim Sumaina in Abuja The federal government yesterday hinted that it had reactivated 14 Independent Power Producer (IPP) solar projects across the country which were ongoing and will produce off-grid electricity of 1,000 megawatts (MW). It further disclosed that the IPPs, which are currently undergoing Technical and Financial Evaluation, shall contribute 1000MW Off-Grid, adding that 10 state governments were enabling solar projects in their states that would deliver 100MW each contributing 1000MW Off-Grid. The Minister of Power, Mr. Abubakar Aliyu, stated this at the First Nigeria-African Natural Resource and Energy Investment Summit hosted by Nigeria’s Ministry of Mines and Steel Development in collaboration with other stakeholders in Abuja. The maiden event which has the theme: ‘Towards a Greener Africa’ kicked-off on Wednesday, 1 June, 2022 and was brought to an end on 3 June, 2022. Aliyu stressed that the 10MW Katsina Wind Farm was already contributing to the grid and was being considered for a solar hybrid that would optimise its availability to 20MW, stating: “Once we stabilise the base load through the hydropower plants at various stages of completion, we shall integrate all the off-grid structures to the national grid, increasing our energy mix. “African governments must be proactive and responsive to the course collectively as that is a prerequisite for achieving a cleaner energy future. It is only by this, can Africa actualise its green transition.” While he charged the rest of the African continent on energy transition, Aliyu said, “On this note, Your excellencies, distinguished ladies and gentlemen, let me use the opportunity to challenge you all to embrace the clean energy revolution as we manage climate change jointly and holistically. This sustainability challenge requires us to build more resilient economies.” Continuing, he maintained that even in the midst of abundant renewable energy potentials which can provide the desired economic growth most parts of Africa still do not have access to electricity and expressed regret that discussions on renewable energy access was overshadowed by other immediate concerns and challenges insecurity, hunger, wars, terrorism and the like. “It is expedient therefore that African countries take front seat and be active in the efforts to decarbonise even as the world focuses on specific accepted Energy Transition pathways, like Gas and Hydrogen, towards Net Zero. “To deal with the challenges nations are facing, we must put in place frameworks and effective mechanisms for collaborations and in areas where there are commercial strengths and seek opportunities of collaboration on the African continent, especially in the Power Sector. For example, the West African Power Pool (APP) programme affords us the opportunity to work with other African countries to build a 330kV Double Circuit Line from Birnin Kebbi all the way to Burkina Faso, passing through Niger, Togo/Benin. “Also we are building the AKK Gas pipeline project passing through Ajaokuta, Kaduna and through North Africa to Europe.” On international partnership towards greener energy, the Power Minister noted, “Countries, like Nigeria, have made commitments to achieve their Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) in line with the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and the COP26 Agreement in Glasgow and to achieve this, we have to scale-up our Solar, Wind, hydropower and even the new hydrogen opportunities, including other new clean technologies. “We must devise innovative ways to access funds while also sustaining the increased investments in low carbon energy sources, and create an enabling environment for broader sustainable development. Renewable energy technologies are rapidly growing in technical proficiency and can provide viable alternatives to Africa. “Therefore, Africa needs to focus on proven approaches, as well as the mobilisation of resources to take advantage of carbon-neutral energy sources.”