 Omolabake Fasogbon The Lagos State Government has lauded Dufil Prima Foods, makers of Indomie Noodles on its support and commitment to children’s growth and development. The state gave the commendation at a Children’s Day party organised by Indomie Fan Club (IFC), where the organisation hosted over 100,000 children from various schools across the country. Present at the event, the First Lady of Lagos State, Dr. Mrs. Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu described Indomie as a role model with regards to child-friendly initiative and enjoined it not to relent on its efforts. She added that protecting the interest and visions of children cannot be ignored, given that they are tomorrow’s adult and professionals who would keep the country going and occupy tomorrow’s seats. She said: “It’s on record that since the Indomie and other products came 26 years ago, it has been consistent in celebrating Children’s Day with series of activities. I congratulate our children on this occasion and urge our parents and guardians to work hard in giving the children a glorious future.” Also speaking, Group Corporate Communications and Events Manager, Dufil Prima Foods Plc, Tope Ashiwaju stated that the celebration was in line with the organisation’s theme campaign, “Show Some Love”. Ashiwaju adds: “After COVID-19 lockdown, this is our major children’s day event to celebrate the Nigerian child. We want children to know that education is key which is why we are engaging them through educative games. Our message to Nigerian children is to continue showing love which is the focal point of Indomie’s theme campaign. “This is almost the third generation of Indomie children since starting in 1996 as some are now parents. We are always with them either as children or as parents. We are grateful to Mrs. Sanwo-Olu who is the mother of all the children in the state for taking time from her busy schedule to spend time with her children.” The children were engaged in dance competitions, quizzes and other fun engaging activities including bumper car, merry-go-round, cartoon shows, cultural performances, and face painting. In her remark, National Coordinator of the IFC, Mrs. Faith Joshua said, “The Indomie Fan Club initiative is without a doubt an innovative Corporate Social Responsibility project designed to educate and provide a fun experience to children, thereby enhancing learning for our children through several extra-curricular activities for children between the ages of 4 and 12.”