*Reiterates govt’s readiness to deal with illegal bearers of arms Deji Elumoye in Abuja President Muhammadu Buhari has charged the Nigeria Police Force High Command to evolve realistic strategies and operations geared toward tackling cyber crimes in the country. The President, who gave the marching order Thursday  at the Passing Out Parade of the Regular Course 4/2016 Cadets of the Nigeria Police Academy, Wudil, Kano state, reiterated his government’s readiness to deal ruthlessly with anyone found bearing arms illegally in the country.He also stressed that his administration since inauguration in May, 2015 has impacted positively in Nigeria’s Economy, corruption and security. President Buhari told the graduating cadets that modern policing transcended land, sea and air, while noting that the internet and new digital technologies have provided a platform for the emerging offences to reach unprecedented levels.He said: “Many of the enemies you will confront will be permanently faceless or concealed, leveraging technology to wage warfare that has the potential to be even more destructive than anything the world has ever known. “We must develop a policy on cyber warfare that has as its strategic focus on the prevention of cyber-attacks against critical national infrastructure, minimizing national vulnerability to cyber-attacks and minimizing damage and recovery time from cyber-attacks”. The President emphasised that his government would continue to demonstrate zero tolerance for crime and criminality stressing that “Those who take laws into their hands, who bear arms illegally and who seek to profit from a climate of fear and insecurity will be decisively dealt with. “That remains our promise to the people of Nigeria, who elected us to keep them safe and secured. The peace and stability of our dear country will continue to be of utmost importance. You, the Police are our points men and you must rise to the occasion.” He also noted that the nation’s security transcended law enforcement to include building the right relationships that underpinned the development of secured societies. “This is why the present administration has been fully committed from the start to strengthening existing relations between Nigeria and her neighbouring countries. It has always been clear to us that there is no way we can achieve the security we seek without the cooperation and support of our neighbours,” he statedThe President added that his government had implemented far reaching social support programme ever in the country to tackle poverty, one of the drivers of insecurity, at the roots. He scored his government high by saying “As you are all aware, this administration came to office determined to make impact in three main areas: security, building a sustainable economy and fight against corruption. We can say that recent positive developments in these areas have shown that despite the challenges on ground, we can see general improvement in all three areas.” The President, who presented awards to two graduating cadets, Rachel Oluwatosin Babarinde and Isa Abdulateef, added that his government had been able to degrade the terrorists in the Northeast, and as well checkmated the activities of bandits and kidnappers in the other parts of the country. According to him,  his government took a resolute stand against pervasive corruption and focused on repositioning the national security for them to perform their duties. While congratulating the cadets for successful completion of their training, the President directed them to maintain the spirit of accomplishment as they prepare to face the tasks ahead. Earlier in his remarks, the Commandant of Nigeria Police Academy,  Assistant Inspector General (AIG), Ahmad AbdurRahama, thanked the President for honouring the invitation, explaining that the institution was upgraded from professional training to degree awarding in 2012. He said the institution had graduated 1,748 cadets, Assistant Superintendent of Police, over the years, including the 205 who just graduated.