Segun Awofadeji in Bauchi Thousands of youths from the 20 local government areas of Bauchi State, Saturday, flooded the state capital in support of the presidential aspiration of Kogi State Governor, Alhaji Yahaya Bello. The youths first converged on the Multi-purpose Indoor Sports Hall before marching in their thousands through Kobi Street, Emir drive, Central Market to Abubakar Tafawa Balewa tomb, causing traffic congestion in different parts of the state capital. As they marched through the state capital, the youths sang different songs of solidarity and support, holding placards with diverse inscriptions asking Nigerians, especially youths, to support Bello’s presidential aspiration. Despite massive turnout for his presidential aspiration, Bello was not conspicuously absent from the rally. However, his Chief of Staff, Alhaji Abdulkareem Asuku, represented him alongside other invited government officials. The youths, who defied the scorching sun to attend the rally statewide, said they were on the streets to show their numerical strength, saying Bello “has nothing to fear. We are ready to support his presidential aspiration unflinchingly.” Speaking at the rally, National President, Rescue Nigeria Mission, Ahmad Damat said a Bello presidency “is non-negotiable in 2023 because he has been tried and tested. He can be trusted in all the areas Nigeria, as a country, is found wanting today.” Damat said it was time “to jettison old ways of playing politics and show that with the numerical strength of the youths in Nigeria, they could create a Nigeria of everyone’s dreams.” He said: “We will not mind the naysayers. We will not mind those who have embarked on a campaign of calumny. We have worked with many leaders and assessed many across the length and breadth of Nigeria. Governor Bello stands out.  “All the lies they have peddled against him have turned to strength for him. For us, Nigerian youths, it is no retreat, no surrender, until we accomplish our aim, which is God’s will by His grace.” Asuku, who led other invited government officials to the rally, assured the youths that his principal would surely heed their call and address them very soon.  “You have been consistent in your call for Governor Bello to contest the presidential election in 2023. He has heard you clearly and will not disappoint you. He has demonstrated in Kogi that it is Youths O Clock, and it is paying off with all the giant strides. “We will repeat the same feat for Nigeria by the grace of God,” Bello’s chief of staff said with optimism. He, however, warned the youths against engaging in political thuggery that could smear the good image and integrity of his principal, He said his principal “hates violence and thuggery,” thereby asking all the youths nationwide to abhor and shun all acts of thuggery and violence. He, also, challenged all the youths across political parties who had yet to get their voter cards “to do so immediately. That is the only weapon we need to vote for Governor Bello as presidential candidate of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC).”