 Francis Sardauna in Katsina The Emir of Katsina, Dr. Abdulmuminin Kabir Usman, yesterday vowed not to disown the leader of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Ahmed Bola Tinubu, in the forthcoming 2023 presidential election in the country. The monarch gave the assurance when he received in audience the members of the Arewa Organisations Movement for Asiwaju led by Senator Abu Ibrahim at his palace in Katsina, the state capital. The delegation also visited Governor Aminu Bello Masari at the Government House where they solicited for his support and prayers.  Usman explained that the country was facing security challenges ranging from banditry, kidnapping, rape, drug trafficking and addiction but if elected as president in 2023, Tinubu would not fail Nigerians. According to him, “I knew Tinubu when he was governor while I was district head and he has assisted me in many ways and now is contesting for president. Tell me the reason why I should disown him. “This insurgency, rape and so many other atrocities in the country are orchestrated by men and if there is anybody that we think can solve these problems, we will vote him, support him and advise him. “So, Tinubu is the son of the soil and he is a good material. I don’t think he will fail us. He will not fail us. Nigeria is one country and there is no other country to go to except Nigeria. We must come together and help yourselves in order to build Nigeria.” He, however, attributed the spate of insurgency, banditry and kidnapping bedevilling the nation to what he termed selfish interest and myopic interest of Nigerians, particularly the leaders. The traditional ruler urged Nigerians to shun tribalism, religions and political affiliations and work together for peace and socio-economic activities to thrive in the country. Speaking earlier, the leader of the delegation, Senator Abu Ibrahim, told the Emir that Tinubu is capable of addressing the challenges afflicting Nigerians when elected as president of the country come 2023. He explained that the delegation was at the emir’s palace to solicit for his blessings, support and advice on the actualisation of the dream of the Arewa Organisations Movement for Asiwaju.