 Ibrahim Oyewale in Lokoja In line with determination to ensure adequate security of lives and property of the people of Kogi West, Senator Smart Adeyemi, has donated several motorcycles to local vigilante groups to enhance community policing. Adeyemi also gave tricycles and grinding and sewing machines that were aimed at making the beneficiaries self reliant at his country home in Iyara, Ijumu Local Government Area of Kogi State. The federal lawmaker, while speaking at the ceremony at the weekend, said the mother of all empowerment would soon be organised by his office. The senator representing Kogi West noted that welfare and security of the people of his constituency and Kogi State remain sacrosanct. “Hopefully by the middle of the year, we will be coming with a much stronger empowerment that will help our people to be able to be self sustaining, so that they can stand on their own and meet the need of their families,” he added. He said that more tricycles and cars would be donated to Kogi West constituents soon to provide succour to the sufferings being faced by the people. Adeyemi stated that this year alone, more roads would get government’s attention in Kogi West as the federal government has earmarked additional N1 billion for the rehabilitation of Kabba-Ilorin Road. Other projects, according to the senator, that would get government’s touch are Odo Ere-Igbaruku Road and Ayetoro- Road. He said that despite the harsh economy in the world, he has facilitated several roads rehabilitation to his constituency, which included Ayetoro Gbede-Abugi, Iyara Township Road, Iyara-Ogidi Road which are currently ongoing. Senator Adeyemi assured that the second phase of his bursary award for students in Kabba-Bunu, Ijumu, Mopamuro, Yagba East and West would take place during the Easter period. On the plan to shutdown air travels due to scarcity of aviation fuel, Senator Adeyemi said though the issue is a global project, the Federal Government must move quickly to address the trend. He, however, noted that the crisis rocking the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) will be resolved in due time, pointing out that disagreements were bound to occur in such a large party. According to him, the superior argument would prevail, adding that APC is the only formidable and dependable party in Nigeria.