 Daniella Okeke is a Nigerian actress, model, TV personality, content producer, and entrepreneur. She is the founder/CEO of the Media Entertainment Company, Dcovi Entertainment Limited. She also runs a not-for-profit organisation called Daniella Okeke Foundation, which caters to the needs of the less privileged. The Imo State indigene had her primary and secondary education in Delta State, then proceeded to the Delta State University (DELSU) to obtain a Bachelor of Arts degree in Fine and Applied Arts. While growing up as a child, she had love for the screen and visualised herself being on the screen some day. She held tenaciously to her dreams and today she is doing what she knows how to do best. The Nollywood star has featured in numerous movies like Stronger Than Pain 1 and 2  (2007), Sleek Ladies 1 and 2 (2007), Show Me Heaven  (2013), Indecent Desire  (2013), Sister’s Heart (2014), Lost Pride Season 1 and 2  (2015), The Oracle (2016), Flaws – 2016. Others are: Long Throat – (2017), Sarah’s Epiphany (2017), My Husband’s Diary (2018), The Devil In Between (2018), A Matter of Chance (2019) among other notable films. In 2013, however, she played in the award-winning movie, Lagos Cougars. Her role in the movie earned her nominations for the Best Actress in a Leading Role at the 10th Africa Movie Academy Awards (AMAA) and the Nigeria Entertainment. Okeke, who has impeccable sense of style, has received awards as Celebrity Owned NGO of the year at the Nigeria Women Achiever’s Award (2019),Conferred with the International Honorary Goodwill Ambassadorial Award at the Nigeria Goodwill Ambassador Awards (2019),Award Recipient at the African Leading Women Awards (2019). On morals she had learnt in her life journey, she narrated, “I have learned not to stress over things I don’t have control over; what will be, will be. A lot of things broke my heart but it fixed my vision.” The Fine and Applied Arts graduate also believes that constructive criticism helps one to grow. “I am open to constructive criticism. If it is the one borne out of hate, I wave it aside. I am in for positive vibes not bad energy.  A lot of shit has broke my heart but it fixed my passion.” She lent a voice to younger ones to have a positive mindset, follow their passion, work hard and strive to bring their A game. She added: “If you have been insecure about your abilities and afraid to take risks for too long, let go of the loser-mentality. It’s time to let it all go.”