 Gilbert Ekugbe Mouka, Nigeria’s leading brand of mattresses and pillows, has collaborated with the Nigeria Society of Physiotherapy in spreading awareness for the importance of quality sleep as a foundational pillar for human health. In commemoration of this year’s World Sleep Day, themed “Quality Sleep, Sound Mind, Happy World,” a global and annual event held on March 18 and dedicated to advocating and raising awareness for sleep health, the duo jointly deployed an educational campaign across the country. According to them, this year’s theme sheds light on key issues such as how quality sleep helps maintain mental health, how better sleep helps people focus during the day and how fatigue can weigh people down physically, mentally, and emotionally. The Managing Director of Mouka, Mr Femi Fapohunda, said the company’s mission is to add comfort to life by providing quality sleep solutions and educating consumers on the right sleep culture. “At Mouka, the wellbeing of our consumers is our top priority. We do not just provide great quality products, we also invest significantly in educating consumers on the right sleep culture. As Nigeria’s foremost manufacturer in the sleep industry, the onus lies on us to ensure our consumers prioritise quality sleep; hence we deploy educational content across numerous platforms, including TV, Radio, Print and Digital. In addition, we look forward to leveraging our membership of Dolidol International Group in terms of technical expertise in consistently delivering superior sleep solutions to our consumers,” Fapohunda said. The president, Nigeria Society of Physiotherapy, Dr Nnenna Nina Chigbo, also shared her views on the importance of sleep education. She said: “Quality sleep is critical for the proper functioning of the body, including immune function, tissue healing, pain modulation, cardiovascular health, cognitive function, and learning and memory.” When asked about the role of a good mattress in the equation, Nnenna had this to say, “A good quality mattress determines a great deal how well you will sleep. A bad mattress can affect the spine and cause damage to the body as the body needs to align well with the mattress. Secondly, when you are not comfortable on your mattress, it will affect the quality of your sleep and can be detrimental to your health.” The president also shared some tips for quality sleep, including fixing a bedtime and an awakening time, avoiding caffeine intake 6 hours before bedtime, using comfortable bedding, blocking out all distracting noise and eliminating light as much as possible.