 Okon Bassey in Uyo Youths of Ikot Ekpene Senatorial District of Akwa Ibom State  have boost the chance of Senator Bassey Albert Akpan becoming the next governor of the state as they presented the sum of N21 million to  him  for  the purchase  of the 2023 governorship form. A cheque of N21 million was given to Senator Akpan by Sir Emen Akpabio on behalf of the youths at a rally in Ikot Ekpene local government area of the senatorial district held on Saturday. Speaking while presenting the cheque, he expressed the confidence that Senator Akpan remains the best option to actualise the new vision for  the Akwa Ibom people. Akpabio, who was the chairman of the event and the Director-General of Senator Akpan campaign think-tank observed that Senator Akpan did not go to the Senate to represent Uyo Senatorial district alone but the entire Akwa Ibom state. He noted that when Senator Akpan was the chairman of Inter-ministerial Direct Labour project under Governor Godswill Akpabio, Ikot Ekpene people felt the positive impact in project execution. According to him, not many aspirants could walk through the Ikot Ekpene Plaza with the people the way Senator Akpan did, adding that the youths were in his support because they believe he will be a good governor. Akpabio decried the double standard by those arguing that there is no micro-zoning, when it comes to governorship, pointing out that in Ikot Ekpene senatorial contest, Abak struggle to produce the next senator, in complete disregard to the zone favoured by zoning. This, he canvassed that the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) should maintained the micro zoning in the governorship election. “The man who does not know you today will not know you tomorrow”, he stressed arguing that Senator Akpan popularly called OBA will always remember them because he knew them long ago. The chairman of the planning committee of the rally, Mr Uduak Isobara, said the governorship hopeful knows most people by name, understands their problems and has the solutions to them. Addressing the youths, the governorship aspirant charged them to take their destinies in their hands by making the right decisions in choosing him as their governor in the 2023 gubernatorial race. He described his aspiration as a movement to emancipate the youths from poverty, hardship and unemployment. In experience, capacity and competence, he said towers above all the other aspirants, submitting that having done it as a commissioner and senator, he will do more as a governor. He said from Oruk Anam to Ukanafun and other areas rich in oil palm, his government will turn the area into a massive production belt, in the mould of Malaysia. Similarly, Ikot Ekpene and other areas rich in raffia, he promised to revive the raffia city market, establish loan-free business clusters and set up an international market to boost the economy of the state. Ini, Ikono and the environs blessed with mashy landmass, according to OBA, will become a rice belt, saying,  “I must force prosperity on you!” To further appreciate youths, he promised to return bursary to students in tertiary institutions, while a digital bank will be set up to collate the demographics of the unemployed. Additionally, he promised to ensure even flow of interest-free loans to the market women. Over 186 political groups, 18 out of the 34 members of the State House of Assembly and 24 aspiring chairmen with their councillors in the forthcoming April 11, 2022 local government elections are supporting his governorship ambition. He challenged the supporters to instead embrace the tenets of political dynamism and root out every factor contributing to the democracy deficit in Nigeria, such as voter apathy, looting, arson, among others.