 Blessing Ibunge in Port Harcourt A 60 years old man, simply known as Victor, has been arrested by the police in Rivers State for the alleged defilement of a neighbour’s physically challenged 12 years old daughter. The suspect, who was caught by the victim’s father stark naked after defiling the deaf and dumb daughter in her house in Ubima, Ikwerre Local Government Area of the state, was first handed over to the local vigilance group before handing over to the police. The father of the victim who gave his name as Eze Eleonu, explained to journalists in Port Harcourt, how his daughter was raped by his neighbour. Eleonu said: “On Saturday March 5, 2022, I came back from travel and noticed that the door to my room was opened. “On entering my room, I saw Victor stark naked sitting very close to my physically challenged daughter who was also naked and I immediately grabbed Victor before raising the  alarm. “The shout attracted another neigbbour to my compound who helped in holding Victor before the arrival of local vigilance group members who took him(Victor) to their office and later handed him over to the Ubima Police Division”. The father of the defiled victim told journalists that before he caught Victor,  he has been noticing blood stains on the  private part of his physically challenged daughter since he ( father) is the one that used to bath her. He explained that the medical examination conducted on the 12-year-old girl confirmed that she has been defiled. THISDAY learned from a reliable source that the suspect has been detained at State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department (SCIID) Port Harcourt, where the matter was transferred to from Ubima Police Division. However, the traumatised father called for justice, adding that the matter should be charged to court without further delay. Meanwhile, a rights group, Centre for Basic Rights Protection and Accountability Campaign, that reacted on the crime has called for a thorough investigation into the matter.