 Okon Bassey in Uyo Two socio political groups, Akwa Ibom Integrity Alliance and the Mandates Eye have criticised  attack on the Speaker of the Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly, Hon. Aniekan Bassey, by thugs at Ibiono Ibom Local Government Area of the state. Bassey was reportedly harassed last week by some miscreants for wearing a cap with the face of one of the gubenatorial aspirants believed to be prejudiced by people in Itu/Ibiono Ibom Federal Constituency, an area laying claim to the governorship position by micro zoning. He was said to have gone to the local government area to consult with the people over his 2023 senatorial election in the Uyo senatorial district. At a press conference held in Uyo weekend, the groups condemned the attack and expressed concern that politicking in the area in recent times have been  overshadowed by blackmails, vindictive utterances, deliberate falsehood and physical assault by hired thugs by some politicians “Worthy of mention is the physical attack on the Speaker of the Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. Aniekan Bassey, who was consulting delegates from Ibiono Ibom to solicit their support for his Senatorial District aspiration. “We are indeed saddened that in the 21st century, a bunch of sane human beings could constitute themselves into nuisance and go around harassing and assaulting innocent persons who do not align with their political views. “It is worse that they could go as far as demanding that Hon. Aniekan Bassey the State’s Number three citizen, should take off his cap because it carried the imprimatur of his preferred governorship aspirant, Pastor Umo Eno, not that of their alleged principal, Senator Bassey Albert Akpan. “Are these agitators telling us that if Aniekan Bassey had put on a pair of trousers or shirt with the inscription of Umo Eno, they would have stripped him naked before allowing him to consult Ibiono Ibom delegates?” Chairman of Akwa Ibom Integrity Alliance Mr. Stephen Abia, asked. Abia commended the speaker for the maturity displayed during the incident and called on security agents in the State to take a step further by ensuring that those fingered in the act are brought to book.