 Michael Olugbode in Abuja A 52-year-old father of four children, Okeke Anayochukwu has been arrested with black liquid cocaine at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja by operatives of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency, NDLEA. Anayochukwu, who claimed to be a businessman was arrested with the strange substance last Tuesday upon arrival at the Abuja airport onboard Qatar Airways flight from Sao Paulo, Brazil through Doha, Qatar to Abuja. A press statement yesterday  by the spokesman of the NDLEA, Femi Babafemi said: “For the first time in history, a 52-year-old father of four children who claims to be a businessman, Okeke Adolphus Anayochukwu has been arrested with black liquid cocaine at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport(NAIA) Abuja by operatives of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency, NDLEA. “Okeke was arrested with 20.75 kilograms of the black liquid cocaine on Tuesday 15th March upon his arrival at the Abuja airport onboard Qatar Airways flight from Sao Paulo, Brazil through Doha, Qatar to Abuja. The liquid was discovered upon search of his two luggages stuffed with six smaller bags containing 32-makeup mascara, which tested positive to cocaine.” Anayochukwu, according to Babafemi, claimed he was a businessman dealing in children wares before delving into the illicit drug business, and confessed he met the person who gave him the consignment to deliver in Nigeria for a fee of N2 million at a drinking joint in Brazil. Babafemi said in other operations across the country, different quantities of various drugs were recovered from suspects. He said at least three persons: Tony Samson, Paul Adamu, and Reuben Waziri were arrested in Kaduna on Friday 18th March with 18,380 tablets of Tramadol, and 12,500 tablets of Diazepam and Exol-5 tablets. In Anambra, NDLEA operatives on last Thursday intercepted a bus with registration number: AGU 460 ZW, at Obosi bridge heading to Aba, Abia state from Onitsha, and upon search, seven and half jumbo sacks of cannabis weighing 362 kilogrammes were recovered while the driver, Ifeanyi Anyamele admitted to be the owner of the drug exhibits. The previous day, last Wednesday, narcotic officers in Ogun state recovered 865.2 kilogrammes of cannabis sativa around Otapele- Obada road in Imeko-Afon local government area. The consignment was brought in from Benin Republic on motorbikes for onward transportation to Lagos and Abeokuta. Same day, operatives in the state arrested Bello Ibrahim, 38, with 312.4 kilogrammes of cannabis sativa at Ogere tollgate, Ikenne local government area. Meanwhile, the Chairman/Chief Executive of NDLEA, Brig. Gen. Buba Marwa (rtd) while commending officers and men of the NAIA, Kaduna, Anambra and Ogun state Commands of the agency for their vigilance and diligence, charged them and their counterparts across the country to always remain steps ahead of the tricks of drug traffickers and the barons.