Kuni Tyessi in AbujaAfter suffering defeat at the National Assembly over the Bill calling for more seats for women at the national and state Houses of Assembly, Nigerian women have vowed not to give up on the struggle for equal representation and women rights which are human rights. Sequel to this, the women have moved to form the Nigerian Reconnect for New Nigeria Initiative (NRNNI) which will serve as a pressure group for women representation. The minister of women affairs, Pallen Tallen who announced this on Tuesday in Abuja, urged women to remain resilient and strong, while insisting that the struggle is not over. Also, she launched the National Communications strategy on ending all forms of violence against women and girls in Nigeria, and the directory of service providers on Gender Based Violence in six spotlight states. Acknowledging the theme of the 2022 International Women’s Day which is “Gender equality today for a sustainable tomorrow”, Tallen said more awareness again bias will be advocated, citing that any country that neglects it’s women folk is crippled and walking on one leg. While congratulating Nigerian women for the outcome at the national assembly, Tallen said advocacies by development partners, women bodies and other support groups were seeds that had been planted and will surely germinate, adding that Nigerian wen will keep pushing. “I strongly believe that there will be victory at the end of the struggle. The Bible says that weeping may endure for a night, but joy comes in the morning. ” I urge Nigerian women to be resilient and strong as the battle is not yet over. We will keep pushing and re-strategising. I congratulate Nigerian women for today and all that have been put in place by advocacies and women bodies. They are seeds and will germinate” she said. “This 2022 IWD is historic as the theme aligns with that of the 66th Session on the Commission on the Status of Women (CSW66) – ‘Achieving Gender Equality and the Empowerment of all Women and Girls in the context of Climate Change, Environmental and Disaster Risk Reduction Policies and Programmes.’ “Currently, emerging issues on the empowerment of indigenous women around the world incidentally coincides with the seventh year into the implementation of the 2030 Global Agenda adopted by the United Nations in 2015.  This roadmap towards enhancing gender equality and intersecting inequalities will enable us guaranty that no one is left behind.