Destiny Udogie  His recent form has been very impressive for Udinese so far this season and with two goals in his last two Serie A games, three Italian clubs-Juventus, Napoli and Atalanta are already scrambling for the signature of the Italian-born Nigerian. Destiny Udogie is already dreaming of donning the green-white-green colours of the Super Eagles at the Qatar World Cup despite having played for Italy at the age-grade level The World Cup is the dream of every professional footballer, and Udinese youngster of Nigerian descent has expressed his desire to feature at the ultimate stage. Udinese wing-back Destiny Iyenoma Udogie has confessed that he is looking forward to being a part of the 2022 FIFA World Cup in Qatar later in the year. By the time the last edition of the Mundial kicked off four years ago in Russia, Udogie was still a starry-eyed 15-year-old slugging it out in the Hellas Verona youth academy, unsure of what the future held for him. Fast forward to the present times, and the 19-year-old is having the best of times in Serie A, where he has made 24 appearances, scored against AC Milan at the San Siro, and netted the goal that shot down Sampdoria. Udogie has been a part of the Italian youth system from the under-16 to the under-21, giving the European nation a significant advantage over his allegiance. But the versatile young defender remains eligible to represent three-time African champions, Nigeria, through his parents. Super Eagles interim technical adviser, Augustine Eguavoen, has excellent left-back options in Paderborn’s Jamilu Collins, Porto’s Zaidu Sanusi, and Rangers’ Calvin Bassey. Still, Udogie could gate-crash the party if he maintains his upward trajectory. He has not shown any interest in representing the West African nation, but he has hinted that he would jump at the opportunity to take part at Qatar 2022. “Going to the World Cup is the greatest dream because it is played for the whole country. For me, it would be a great satisfaction,” Udogie said. Udogie is the rave of the moment in the Italian top-flight, with some of the country’s biggest clubs keeping a tab on him, including Juventus and Atalanta. The young defender, however, makes it clear that he shares a relationship with his Nigerian father and still listens to his instructions, which are helping his development. “My father always tells me to stay calm, to enjoy the moment, to play carefree and not to freak out because I’m still young,” the on-loan Hellas Verona lad said. “I try to follow these tips. I try to enjoy Serie A and the moment because I’m still young. “Now, as a wing-back, I feel good because it is a role in which I can express myself. I think I would feel better as a full-back than a half-winger.” Udogie has a loan deal with Udinese until the end of the season, with the Little Zebras retaining the rights to make his deal permanent. He is currently valued at €9 million. After scoring two goals in his last two Serie A appearances,  Udogie has cemented himself as one of the best revelations of the campaign. The young left-back is a youth product of Hellas Verona, but he currently plays for Udinese on loan. The 19-year-old scored a controversial goal against Milan in round 27 which secured an unlikely point for the Zebrette at the San Siro. The Italian also found the back of the net when Udinese hosted Sampdoria last weekend. According to Calciomercato, Juventus are in the race to sign Udogie next summer, but will face competition from two other Serie A big boys. In addition to the Bianconeri, Napoli and Atalanta are also interested in the up-and-coming fullback. Udogie is of Nigerian origins but has been representing Italy in several age classes. In September 2021, he made his debut for the Azzurri’s U-21 side. Undoubtedly an interesting talent, the Verona youngster was always bound to attract the interest of some of the bigger names in the league. But while Juventus are hoping to reinforce their left-back department this summer, the management usually prefer to send the younger players out on loan in order to gain more experience. Therefore, even if the Bianconeri manage to secure his services, a more experienced player could end up replacing Alex Sandro instead of the young Udogie. Serie A side Atalanta Bergamasca Calcio are also keen on signing young Italian-Nigerian wing-back when the summer transfer window opens, says Italian transfer news-focused publication, Calcio Mercato. Udogie is enjoying an excellent maiden season in the Italian top-flight after his breakthrough at the Hellas Verona academy. Some of the highlights of the youngster’s campaign include netting the equaliser for the Little Zebras in the 1-1 draw against AC Milan at the San Siro and hitting the target in the 2-1 win over Sampdoria. Udogie however admits he ‘wasn’t sure’ whether he handled the equaliser against Milan, as refereeing pundits ask why the goal wasn’t disallowed. The wing-back bundled over the line from close range after Roberto Pereyra kicked it back over his head, Alessio Romagnoli failed to cut it out and Udogie was ready. However, Udogie looked suspiciously sheepish during his celebration and confessed to DAZN afterwards there was a good reason. “I honestly wasn’t sure if I got it with my arm. I looked over at the linesman and he gave it, so it went well.” There was a VAR silent check for possible handball after the goal, but the officials opted not to call the referee over for an on-field review. DAZN refereeing pundit and former official Luca Marelli said he was “frankly surprised” the VAR did not intervene, because from some angles it certainly looked as if the ball went in off Udogie’s arm. When the handball is used to score a goal, intent is irrelevant, so the position of the arm makes no difference to whether the goal should be disallowed. The Black and Blues are noted for their endless energy and attacking vibe and Super Eagles-eligible Udogie is believed to be a perfect fit for manager Gian Piero Gasperini’s style of play. Udogie has played for Italy at every level of youth football from the U-16 to the U-21, but he is yet to feature for the senior team, making him eligible for the Super Eagles.