Society Watch A mother’s love is priceless. And losing a mother is, without doubts, one of the deepest sorrows that a man’s heart can experience. Therefore, a child giving his mother a grand farewell is the least he can do for a caring mother. That was exactly what Otunba Olumide Araoyinbo did when he buried his dear mum, Deaconess Roseline Oluwakemi Araoyinbo, last weekend. The former Majority Leader of the Ondo State House of Assembly, astute businessman and philanthropist spared no expenses to make the event a memorable one. Expectedly, the historic town of Irun Akoko in Akoko North West Local Government Area of Ondo stood still for days as the event turned into a festival of celebrations that lasted seven days. Signs of what to expect began early in the week when activities kicked off with the traditional rites. Each day was allocated to traditional groups and musicians who danced around the length and breadth of the ancient town with plenty of food and drinks. This was even as close friends and allies of the chief mourner began to troop in days to the final ceremony to have a taste of the rustic town. Olumide Araoyinbo, popularly known as Sokoto among his pals, did not disappoint, as he left no stone unturned in his bid to give his precious mum a befitting burial. The ceremony, which began on Monday, climaxed on Friday when the A-list guests began to troop into the town. Among the guests at the church service were former Minister of Tourism, Culture and National Orientation, Adetokunbo Kayode; former Deputy Governor of Ondo State, Agboola Ajayi, former Attorney-General of Ondo State, Seinde Kumuyi and the APC Chairman in Ondo State, Ade Adetimehin. Others include former speakers of the Ondo State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. Oluwasegunota Bolarinwa and Rt. Hon. Abdusallam Taofik, Rear Admiral Samuel Ilesanmi Alade (rtd), former deputy speaker, Rt. Hon Iroju Ogundeji and several members of the State’s House of Assembly. On the bandstand, Juju music king, King Sunny Ade (KSA), was at his best as he dished out scintillating tunes that left the guests spellbound, with many rushing to have a glimpse of the music legend. Many of the female guests left nothing to chance, as they turned out in their colourful “Aso Ebi” in various shades, styles and sizes. It was indeed a one-in-town burial ceremony that will be referenced in a long time to come. The remains of Mama were later laid to rest in a beautifully constructed mausoleum.