 In what could upset Akwa Ibom politics in the next few months, the member representing Etinan/Nsit Ibom/Nsit Ubium Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives and Chairman, Committee on Judiciary, Hon Onofiok Akpan Luke, has signified interest in the 2023 Akwa Ibom governorship election as he made public declaration of his ambition in Uyo, Akwa Ibom State capital recently Deji Elumoye reports Last week 44 years old Onofiok Akpan Luke stood before a cheering crowd in Uyo, Akwa Ibom State capital when he announced that he would seek the nomination of his party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to contest the governorship election of Akwa Ibom State in 2023, with a promise to run an all inclusive government if given the opportunity to serve. Hence, he anchored his campaign on the slogan: Building Together and Growing Together. Invoking the memory of the hall, Ibom Hall grounds, where he read his campaign manifesto to his kinsmen, a ground he described as a symbol of the growth and continued unity of the state, the federal lawmaker, reminded the enthusiastic crowd of the potentials the edifice they were all gathered in holds. He said the Hall held many memories aimed at enthroning a visionary, purposeful and competent leadership for the future of the state. The ranking House member told his teeming supporters: ‘‘Today I unveil my social contract with you title “Building Together, Growing Together”. I want to assure you that I am fully prepared for the task of serving you and building the Akwa Ibom of our dreams, and I intend to hit the ground running when given the opportunity. ‘‘Dear Akwa Ibomites, this is the time to reinvent our economy and society to ensure a rapid progression on economic development and shared prosperity trajectory; to hearken to the yearnings and aspirations of our people; to restore hope and earn the trust of our people in governance; to provide the critical infrastructure that has so easily eluded us; to end the neglect of rural communities; to empower the women and youth; to support our micro, small and medium scale enterprises; to reduce the incidence and severity of poverty in our land. ‘‘I represent the bridge between the past, the present and future, I represent the young and the old, the analogue and the digital generation, the rich and the poor, the haves and the have-nots. This gives me a unique perspective on issues that cut across the various strata of our society’’, the 44-year-old said. Luke told the crowd he would reposition Akwa Ibom as an economic powerhouse and promised to use his wealth of experience as a public sector administrator, a lawyer, and an advocate of good governance to serve the state with greater prosperity under the theme: Building Together, Growing Together. He said his objective was to rally the abundant human resources towards building a vibrant and diverse economy in Akwa Ibom State, while leveraging on the infrastructural development and active youthful population to create jobs and provide visionary and selfless leadership to consolidate on the gains of past and present administrations. ‘‘We have been blessed with good leaders who have contributed in great measure towards the development of the State, with transformative projects and progressive policies in areas such as Agriculture, Education, and Infrastructure etc. He promised to overhaul a political system that only provides limited access to the people. His words: “Our government will be for everyone – from remote communities in the marshlands of Eastern Obolo to those in the highlands of Itu, from communities like Nditia and Ikot Udota in Eket LGA, to communities such as Obot Mme in Ini LGA and Ikpanya in Ibiono-Ibom LGA, to Akpa Mfri Ukim in Uruan LGA and Okorutip in Ibeno LGA. From communities like Eyulor in Urue Offong/Oruko LGA, to Udesi Isong Inyang in Mbo LGA, from Esuk Oro in Oron LGA to Utu Ikot Ekpenyong in Ikot Ekpene LGA and Uta Ewa in Ikot Abasi LGA, among others Hon Luke declared that he would leverage on the potential in partnering the private sector, diaspora community, Developmental Financial Institutions (DFIs) and International Donor Agencies to accelerate economic growth, improve quality of life, and create sustainable jobs for Akwa Ibom indigenes. He listed among his policy direction to be rested on nine pillars, which include: Food Sufficiency & Agricultural Development; Education; Healthcare; Technology Development; Entrepreneurial & Industrial development; Tourism, Sports & Entertainment; Youth, Women & Social Inclusion; Security, Environment & Infrastructure and Good Governance & Administration “The most important part of my value proposition is increasing our productivity level to ensure that Akwa Ibom State can compete with other emerging economies. We can do this easily if we engender a greater sense of inclusiveness by ensuring that as we build together, we will also partake in the benefits, and grow together. Akwa Ibom is one of the most peaceful and resource-rich states in Nigeria, blessed with brilliant minds. It is therefore important for us to invest in human capacity development to improve skills and empower our people to build and grow, while improving infrastructure and attracting Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) into the state. “We see immense potential in partnering the private sector, our diaspora community, Developmental Financial Institutions (DFIs) and International Donor Agencies to accelerate economic growth, improve quality of life, and create sustainable jobs for Akwa Ibom indigenes. “We will ensure that salaries, gratuities, and pensions are paid on time, and that our civil service is well-equipped and repositioned for increased productivity and efficiency. “Thankfully, we have obtained the approval of the Full Business Case of the Ibom Deep seaport project and we can only imagine to what extent the completion of this project would lift our state and attract investors. The fundamental concern is on how to ensure our people our better prepared and their capacities enhanced to be part of this massive sector. In our efforts at Human Capacity Development, we will train our citizens in offshore pipe laying, marine and vessel engineering, port and ship management as well as maritime law, he said. To increase revenue generation in the state, he proposed to look at two key areas. “To achieve all these, we need to generate revenue and below are highlights of my plan on revenue generation. The future and sustainability of growth in our economy is dependent on how we can continue to grow our IGR and at what pace we can grow our IGR, increasing our database of remitting agents and significantly increasing our collection, as backed by enabling laws in the state, would make all the difference. “Two Immediate areas of interest would be: Agriculture  and Tourism. Our administration will ensure gender equity social inclusiveness by investing in the creation of programs that provide opportunities for women to increase their incomes, gain relevant skills, participate in governance, and continue to contribute in even more impactful ways to our society. Admitting the tactic is typical of aspiring, Luke promised to overhaul a political system he says is dominated by lobbyists and special interest groups “who’ve turned our government into a game only they can afford to play.” “We will also ensure a more inclusive society for persons living with disabilities and the Vulnerable in the state by promoting social inclusion programs in schools and communities, and investing in structures that make living easier and safer. “Youth, Sports and Talent Development are other areas where we intend to develop the capacity of our people in. We will provide our youths with the right platforms to help them gain marketable skills with which they can build livelihoods and excel in our nation. We will be celebrating our wins no matter how small- be it intellectual, scholarly, and creative wins. “We will promote the development of sports in our State by encouraging participation in sports at all levels through tournament sponsorships, athlete sponsorships, and sports scholarships. Our traditional sports will be celebrated and promoted. “We will develop Akwa Ibom’s Tourism and Entertainment industry and promote the State as the ideal tourist destination and as a fast-growing entertainment hub. We intend to take full advantage of the beautiful landscapes, historical landmarks, creative talent and beautiful culture that we have been blessed with. “Industrialization will be a major area of focus of our administration. We will strive for the completion and utilization of the Liberty Oil and Gas Free Trade Zone, and the Ibom Deep Sea Port, among other projects, through effective collaboration with relevant stakeholders. I reiterate that we will also build capacity within the State by making sure that our youths have the right skills to take up roles in these emerging industrial hubs. “The economy of our dear state would only take a downward spiral if we do not build a viable structure for Small and medium scale enterprises (SMEs). These enterprises constitute the foundation on which any economy rests and we will prioritize them through the provision of interest free loans and grants as well as a special fund set aside for this purpose. This will be followed through by periodic evaluation of impact assessment. “From the foregoing, it is palpably clear that the enthronement of the amazing grace project would be the enthronement of our people, an enhancement of their individual capacities and the promotion of their readiness for the massive investment of our economy for these investments would meet a ready people ready to be part of the growth of our dear state. “We propose an all-inclusive government, where development across the state will be simultaneous and impactful, and where resources will be distributed equally and fairly. “Our government will be one where every ethnic group in the State will be relevant. It will be one where meritorious public service and integrity will be rewarded, and capacity will be sourced from the state and beyond”.