 Adedayo Akinwale Ahead of Saturday’s national convention of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), a public opinion poll conducted by DBI Analytics Consulting has tipped former Benue State Governor and Minister for Special Duties, Senator George Akume as the most suitable candidate to lead the party. The national poll was conducted to ascertain the level of citizens’ awareness towards ongoing socio-political happenings in the country, part of which includes the forthcoming APC Convention. DBI Associate Director, Mr.  Segun Olajonrin, in a statement issued yesterday  said the  poll was administered between Monday 14th and Thursday 17th March, 2022. He added that  it involved telephone interviews of a random national sample. Olajonrin said: “A total of 1,011 citizens were randomly selected from phone-owning Nigerians aged 18 years and above; and citizens across the 36 states of the country and the FCT were interviewed. “The sample has a ±5% margin of error and confidence interval of 95%, deemed statistically significant.From the poll findings, 51 percent of respondents said they are aware of the forthcoming National Convention of the APC, while 41 percent are unaware and 8 percent simply uninterested to participate in the poll.” Olajonrin noted that in terms of familiarity with the candidates contesting for the party Chairmanship, 53 percent, 52 percent and 50 percent of respondents said they were familiar with Tanko Al-Makura, Abdullahi Adamu and George Akume respectively. He noted that 45 per cent said they are familiar with Senator Sani Musa, while 39 percent said they were familiar with Mustapha Salihu. Olajonrin stressed that the poll also sought the opinion of citizens regarding which of the  aspirants they believe has the leadership capacity, character and integrity to lead the APC. He added:  “From the findings, Senator George Akume came tops with 32 percent as the candidate with the leadership capacity, character and integrity to lead the party. This was followed by Alhaji Tanko Al-Makura with 23 percent and Senator Abdullahi Adamu with 17 percent. Others are Senator Sani Musa with 8 percent and Mustapha Salihu with 6 percent.”