 Edmark City Development Co., Limited, the master developer of Edmark City, has announced the award of the Superstructure Contract for the entire project to Al Mansour Engineering & Contracting Limited. The iconic City is located strategically at Lagos Epe Express Road by 3rd roundabout, Lekki Phase I, Lagos, Nigeria and is expected to be completed by 2024. The property stands in a prime location and prestigious address making it a great investment towards a more modern and holistic lifestyle. “Edmark city was designed and shaped to create a modern and sustainable urban environment for people to SHOP, WORK, LIVE, PLAY at the heart of a growing city of Lekki”, explains Mr. Bien Wapanio, Chief Operating Officer of Edmark Nigeria. Wapanio said that Al Mansour is a company with long-standing track record adding that, “by working with them, Edmark City will achieve greater heights as a superstructure with quality finish. The City is in line with Lagos State Government vision to be a mega hub city. It will be the first iconic smart city and block chain-powered real estate in Africa. The property offers a one-stop-shop luxury living at an affordable price. This will be everyone’s most comfortable home – away from the traffic jam, mall living experience, and 24/7 security and electrical power. “Nigeria remains pivotal towards the growth of Edmark in Africa, and we remain invested to see its people and communities prosper through our vision and healthy living products. As a mean to give back to the people of Nigeria, Edmarkremains in the country to continually contribute in infrastructure development and human resources. We see a long and bright future here. “The City will provide an empowering environment that truly compliments a desired modern lifestyle. Similar to the smart city adoption in Barcelona, London and Dubai, Edmark City will definitely put Nigeria on the map, and will offer various attractive investment opportunities for both foreign and local individuals and businesses.”