 • Anti-graft agency arrests 33 suspected internet fraudsters Kingsley Nwezeh The newly-elected President of the Network of National Anti-Corruption Institutions in West Africa (NACIWA) and Executive Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Mr.  Abdulrasheed Bawa, yesterday promised to strengthen international cooperation and coordination among West African Countries in combating corruption and illicit financial flow. Bawa said this while giving his closing remarks at the just concluded NACIWA General Assembly held in Abuja. Bawa’s pledge came as the commission arrested 33 internet fraudsters in Lagos and Enugu. While thanking the outgone NACIWA President, Francis Ben Kaifala and his executives for exemplary leadership in the last three years, Bawa stated that his task in NACIWA would be to strengthen and harmonise administrative and legal frameworks in combating corrupt practices in the sub- region, enhancing cooperation within NACIMA member-states for borderless investigation to stem the tide of illicit financial flows, developing a strategic and operational plan for the network, among others. He also sought closer rapport among member-states for informal relationship that would boost inter- agency investigative relationships. Bawa was elected President of NACIWA on Monday, March 21, 2022, in Abuja. Meanwhile, operatives of the Lagos and Enugu Zonal Commands of the commission yesterday arrested 33 internet fraud suspects in separate sting operations. A statement by the commission said 17 of the suspects were arrested in Lagos, while 16 others were nabbed at Enugu. The 17 suspects arrested in Lagos were Adefila Ayobami Ezekiel, Anamene Somtochukwu, Nzeako Kosisochukwu Anthony, Afolabi Ayomide Henry, Olatona Ayodeji Ebenezer, Obioho Ikenna Raphael, Famolayo Femi Hammed, Mintah-Joshua Oluwafemi, Martins Victor Onuoha, Babatunde Haruna Oluwaseyi, Taiwo Bolaji Kehinde, Ibeakolam Goodluck, Onaolapo Iyanu Samuel, Jamiu Damilola Lawal, Adeyanju Fawaz, Adejide Samuel and Obioho Obinna. They were arrested in an Estate around the Okota axis of Lagos following credible intelligence received by the commission on the illegal activities of some individuals allegedly involved in computer fraud. It said upon their arrest, six exotic vehicles, laptops and mobile devices were recovered from them. The 16 suspected fraudsters arrested in Enugu were apprehended at Premier Layout axis of Enugu. They were Ovu Chimezie, Junior Gentle Pepple, Nwoye Paul, Ezeoke Chimelue, Innocent Kenechukwu, Tochukwu Igbonekwu, Chigozie Oguanya, Nwachukwu Daniel and Charles Duru Chibuzor. Others were Anderson D. Ugochukwu, Chinedu Nwasu, Obiora Martin Ugonna, Nwabueze Chidindu, Nwabueze Samuel Nnaemeka, Okechukwu Collins.D and Nwabueze Benjamin Ikenna. Preliminary investigation linked them with suspected impersonation, possession of fraudulent documents and defrauding unsuspecting foreign nationals. Items recovered from the suspects included one Lexus ES350 with registration number EPE113 HB, a Mercedes Benz E350 with registration number RSH 201 BP, another Mercedes Benz with registration number UWN 338 MP and one Toyota Camry with registration number JRV 944 KL; and several phones and laptops. The suspects would be charged to court as soon as investigations are concluded.