 AIICO Insurance Plc has announced that it has received Information Security Management System certification from the British Standards Institution (BSI) under ISO 27001:2013 standard. AIICO, said it clinched the certificate after a thorough assessment of its Information Security Management System, which is the highest international standard for information security management and a globally recognised information security standard developed and maintained by the International Organisation for Standardisation (ISO). AIICO Managing Director Babatunde Fajemirokun said the Company broke the record as the first in the industry in Nigeria to receive this certification, which represents high information security standards that provided a wide range of requirements for information security management systems He said Information Security Management is a system that defines and manages controls that an organisation needs to implement to ensure that it is protecting the confidentiality, availability, and integrity of its assets. He said It has become an absolute necessity for corporate entities to protect their assets in view of the ever-increasing cyber-security threats and vulnerabilities that are ravaging the world today, resulting in significant losses. Also speaking, AIICO Chief Risk Officer, Mr. Abiodun Adebanjo stated, “We consider the certification as a reward for the collective efforts that has gone into embedding the information security risk management culture within the entire organisation, and a reflection of the premium we place on protecting our customers and business data. He said with this certification, AIICO has taken the necessary and needed steps to protect its priority information from data breaches, unauthorised access, and other disruptive data security threats to our stakeholders’ data. He assured that all hands were on deck, and that the company continue to improve and adapt to changing circumstances with the goal of providing adequate and sustainable protection to our information assets.” Commenting on the certification, Fajemirokun said, “We are taking conscious steps towards the fulfilment of our vision of being the dominant insurer in Sub-Saharan Africa, leveraging technology. While investing substantially in technology, we are also mindful of the associated risks and leaving no stone unturned for effective risk management; this is the reason we subjected our systems to BSI’s assessment.” He stated further, that the company’s valued Customers and other stakeholders stood to benefit more from this endeavor According to him, the implementation was towards a sustainable approach to business continuity, reinforcing adding that resilience against attacks and strengthening our ability to continue to fulfil our obligations now and in the future.”