 Ismail Adebayo in Birnin Kebbi The Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Geoffrey Onyeama, has said the federal government will evacuate all Nigerians trapped in Ukraine and bring them back home safely. Onyeama disclosed this in Birnin Kebbi when he paid a courtesy call on Governor Abubakar Atiku Bagudu. He said his  ministry and the various state governments were working round the clock to ensure that all the citizens of Nigeria are brought back home safely. ” I am here to assure you of the safety and security of Nigerians, including students in Ukraine. It is a global challenge, the Russia-Ukraine war is a worrying situation. ” President Muhammadu Buhari has approved a significant amount of money for the evacuation of Nigerians from the terrible situation they find themselves. ” The ministry and our Ambassador in Ukraine and other neighbouring countries are working relentlessly to ensure the successful execution of the evacuation exercise,” Onyeama said. He stated that his visit to Kebbi State was to reaffirm total solidarity with the government and people of the state and give the cheering news to get the Nigerian students in Ukraine back to safety. “My  visit is also to essentially share the myriad of messages from governments around the world sympathising with the government and people of Kebbi state on the recent tragedies of bandits attacks”, he said. He explained that the international communities are in solidarity with the people and government of Kebbi state. “This is why the President approved the visit to come and share the wishes of the international communities to people of kebbi State.” He urged people of the state to continue to stand firmly against the bandits and victory will soon come. “There will be no retreat,” he said Governor Atiku Bagudu, who was represented by the Secretary to the Government, Babale Umar Yauri, said the state was pleased with the energies and control the minister has exerted on Nigeria’s foreign policies. He expressed delight that the federal government had facilitated a robust relationship between the state and its neighbors, Niger and Benin Republics. He lamented the recent killing of vigilantes and military officers by bandits noting that the state government is doing its best to ensure that they do not infiltrate into the hinterlands.