 Rebecca Ejifoma The 22-year-old missing lady, Oluwabamise Ayanwole, was Monday found dead with some of her private parts allegedly missing in the Ebute-Ero Area of Lagos State. She was reported missing by family members on social media after boarding a BRT Bus from Chevron in the Ajah area of the state heading to Oshodi on Saturday February 26. Anyawole, a fashion designer, was said to have been tossed out of a moving bus half-dead. The gory image of her remains is already trending on social media. Earlier as seen in a video, mother of the victim called on the police and the state government to help in arresting the fleeing driver and get her daughter back safely. Already, police have began investigation into the case, as family members of the deceased claimed that one Nice Andrew Omininikoron, the driver of a BRT bus, abducted their daughter. The Lagos State Police Command also confirmed this in a press release by its Spokesman, Adekunle Ajisebutu, on Monday. The statement read: “The corpse was found lying on the Carter Bridge by Ogogoro Community, Lagos, Lagos Island. The corpse has been deposited at the morgue of the Mainland Hospital, Yaba, for autopsy. “The bereaved family has been contacted and family members have identified the corpse as that of Oluwabamise Ayanwole, the lady earlier declared missing.” It further noted that the Commissioner of Police, Abiodun Alabi, is saddened by this incident. Therefore, expressed, on behalf of the management, officers and men of the command, his heartfelt condolences to the bereaved family. Notwithstanding, Alabi assured the public that the detectives handling the case would not rest on their oars until Ayanwole’s killers were found. “We, therefore, assure the concerned public and the bereaved family that we are closing in on the culprits and we are sure that soon the suspects would be arrested and made to face justice for this murderous act. “While soliciting the cooperation of all and sundry, we once again appeal to anyone with additional information that could help the police in arresting the suspects to kindly oblige us. Such information, we assure, will be treated with utmost confidentiality”