 Less than a week after the International Women’s Day for 2022 was celebrated on March 8, shocking images hit the internet of how one Mrs. Ajuese Obiorah was beaten, stripped naked and forced to swear an oath before a deity in Eziagulu- Otu, Aguleri, Anambra East Local Council area of Anambra State. The barbaric cruelty was visited on the woman on the unfounded allegations of having killed her husband by engaging in extramarital affairs. Now, words cannot be minced that no matter the provocation, nobody, man, woman and child should be subjected to the kind of cruel treatment that Mrs. Obiorah was subjected to and for what, unfounded and even laughable allegations. She was said to have killed her husband by engaging in extramarital affairs, allegations her traducers would surely struggle to prove in court given that the supposed circumstances under which Mrs. Obiorah was said to have killed her husband are not any known to law. This makes all those who participated in the acts of vicious cruelty visited on Mrs. Obiorah criminally complicit in the inhuman and inhumane treatment of the woman. For this, they must be fished out and prosecuted. They cannot hide under antiquated and extremely cruel customs and traditions to escape justice for their actions. This attack which is surely one too many is emblematic of the horrendous treatment women are subjected to the hands of callous custodians of barbaric customs and traditions. In fact, that this one has come to light and drawn a chorus of condemnation is thanks to social media. Otherwise, many women suffer every day in silence and shame with no respite coming their way. Customs and traditions are not in themselves bad. But those ones which target women, or come fully and forcefully alive when the subject is a woman are not only incurably bad, they are repugnant to natural justice and must be scrapped. To do this, law enforcement agencies have to step up to the plate and act decisively in apprehending and prosecuting all those who hide under the umbrella of customs and traditions to make life unbearable for women. The conversation must also thickly revolve around advocacy. People must be sensitized to know that things have changed. People must be constantly reminded that women play an invaluable role in the society and must necessarily share equality with every other member of the society. Sensitization must also continue on the fact that any form of cruelty on women can no longer be condoned or tolerated. This is imperative if Nigeria is to enshrine gender justice which is critical to building a society where women are not merely tolerated but are celebrated as equal partners in progress. However, to embark on that journey in Nigeria would seem forbiddingly long because there are those who occupy the highest positions in Nigeria`s policymaking circles, wield so much influence, but would rather see women remain in the background. It is absolutely shocking that the extremely disturbing case of Mrs. Ajuese Obiorah is coming for Anambra State, the supposed light of the nation, and supposedly one of Nigeria`s most egalitarian states. All those who contributed in casting stones at Mrs. Obiorah for what was at best unsubstantiated allegations must be made to face the music of the law. Kene Obiezu, keneobiezu@gmail.com