 The convener of the Africa Movie Academy Awards (AMAA), Peace Anyiam-Osigwe is recognised as one of the pillars of Africa’s film industry. Since 2005, when the first AMAA was held, the award platform has helped in creating avenues for filmmakers to distribute and gain recognition for their works at major global film festivals. A filmmaker with experience in film festivals and distribution, Anyiam-Osigwe believes that there is a lot of collaboration among African filmmakers who are passionate about pushing the narrative in African cinema. Her work has not gone unnoticed. Anyiam-Osigwe who also doubles as the first female President of the Association of Movie Producers (AMP) is lauded for her numerous contributions to the continent film industry. Recently, encomiums were showered on her by AMP’s executives. The 25-year-old association, according to Vice President Queen Blessing and Financial Secretary Tony Chukwuma, has witnessed more growth and achievements under Anyiam-Osigwe in just two years. “She is the first female president of AMP and has done very well in positioning the association to achieve more. We were able to keep more platforms for our producers to sell their works. We are working on buying a property for the association to have its own permanent office. We have established more state chapters for the association. We have done capacity building in different states where our chapters are located to make sure our producers have the right scales to make better movies,” said Blessing. For Chukwuma, Anyiam-Osigwe is a proactive leader who does not think of herself but the welfare of members. He rolled out the various feats the association has achieved since the AMAA convener took the reins. They include online registration of members, a cooperative scheme, establishment of new chapters in Enugu, Ebonyi and Akwa Ibom and rebranding of the association’s logo. A common acknowledgement by both executives is that AMAA continues to play a role in growing film industries across Africa. This, they said, is a testament to Anyiam-Osigwe’s brilliance.