 Ibrahim Oyewale The Pro-Chancellor, Federal University, Lokoja, Senator, Professor Chris Iheanyichukwu Adighije, has assured  parents/guardians as well as students of federal universities that the face-off between Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) and federal government would  soon be over to enhance rapid growth in educational sector. Senator Adighije ,who gave this assurance while speaking on the sideline of inauguration of  several projects executed under the leadership of Professor Olayemi Durotimi Akinwunmi, the Vice Chancellor, Federal University, Lokoja  yesterday , noted the face-off among  the critical stakeholders is very healthy with aim of finding a lasting solution to all problems thwarting education sector in Nigeria. “I pitied the ASUU, pitied the Federal government as well as students and their parents who currently bearing the the attendant consequences of the strike action embarked upon by ASUU. The Federal government is not folding it hands as it has already set up  a seven-man panel to look into all the grey areas of the ASUU’s demands. I can assure you that we are moving towards resolving the crisis once and for all to ignite the expected development of tertiary education in the country,” he added . He told journalists that he was one of the seven -man panel set up by the federal government  and promised to stop at nothing to ensure that normalcy return to all Nigerian Universities. The Pro-Chancellor maintained that it is very obvious that the government can not do it alone, stressing that organisations and well-meaning Nigerians must come to the rescue now. He commended the Vice-Chancellor, Federal, Lokoja , Professor Akinwunmi for his vision and mission to develop the nascent citadel of learning within shortest time he assumed the office. Among the projects inaugurated are the Federal University, Lokoja Printing Press located at College of Health Sciences at Adankola Campus  the School Plague at the main gate of the institution at armament site at Felele campus and newly constructed Ring road by Akinwunmi led administration. He described the vice chancellor as workaholic man  with a lot of vision for development of Federal University, Lokoja and taking it to greater height. Speaking , the Vice Chancellor , Professor  Akinwunmi stated that the entire management team of the institution are poised to take the citadel of leaning to the next level, adding that among its peers that were established in 2011 by President Goodluck Jonathan only FUL was lacking behind with two faculties and eleven programmes. “When we look around and see the level others have attained, we have no choice than to move fast to catch up with them. To the glory of God, we are here today. I want to tell you that NUC have just approved commencement of our college of medicine and I can’t tell that we will admit students to commence MBBS programme from this year ‘, He pointed out that the institution has also introduced the Legislative studies and other relevant courses. Akinwunmi told the newsmen that the university  has already secured a total sum  of N1 billion for the commencement of construction Senate Building at the permanent site. He therefore, assured that the management team would not relent in their efforts to improve on the standard of education at Federal University , Lokoja