 Manchester United interim Manager Ralf Rangnick has called for his players and the club’s fans “to be on top form” for his side’s Champions League game against Atletico Madrid tonight. Manchester United drew 1-1 with the La Liga champions in Spain on 23 February. Rangnick said “all players” were available for the last-16 second-leg tie, but there was a “small question mark” over the fitness of Luke Shaw. Left-back Shaw recently tested positive for coronavirus. Midfielder Bruno Fernandes is back in training after returning a negative Covid test, while fellow midfielder Scott McTominay also trained on Monday having missed United’s last game, against Tottenham on Saturday, with a calf injury. Portugal international Fernandes is available to play having missed United’s 3-2 victory over Spurs, while Shaw will be assessed before kick-off. “We want players and supporters to be on top form, like Spurs,” said Rangnick. “They can make it a very special experience for everybody. We have to create those moments.” United last reached the quarter-finals of the Champions League in 2019, where they lost 4-0 on aggregate to Barcelona. In the first leg against Atletico, Anthony Elanga netted a late equaliser to cancel out Joao Felix’s opener. Atletico are on a three-game winning run since drawing with United and are fourth in La Liga – 12 points behind leaders Real Madrid having played one game more. Cristiano Ronaldo scored a hat-trick for United as they beat Tottenham in a thriller on Saturday. And Rangnick is confident the 37-year-old will be able to play two matches in four days. “I’m not worried that he hasn’t been able to recover,” he added. “He looks after himself. He knows what to do. “If he can score another three goals, we will see? It is not easy against this team. “It is not only about Cristiano, it is about the whole team. We have to know what it takes, the rest is about energy. “It is very important (to score first). Atletico don’t mind the opposition having the ball. If possible, we have to make sure we don’t concede at all.” Atletico Madrid boss Diego Simone said his side are “really up for the game” as they hope to reach the last eight of the Champions League. “We know every game is completely different, we’ve done well in these previous games like this in this country,” he said. “We know the potential and how important the opponent we’re facing on Tuesday, and I’m sure that we’ll do the best we can in the game.” Atletico’s Yannick Carrasco will miss out through suspension, while Matheus Cunha, Daniel Wass, Sime Vrsaljko and Thomas Lemar remain sidelined through injury. Skipper Koke returned from a muscle injury on Friday, playing 45 minutes of his side’s win over Cadiz, and could start at Old Trafford. Mario Hermoso, Geoffrey Kondogbia and Jose Gimenez are also all in the travelling squad but are doubts with knocks. The other game of the evening is between Ajax and Benfica at the Amsterdam Arena. The first leg ended 2-2.