 Eromosele Abiodun A team of experts from the World Bank had adjudged the port concession model of the federal government that was rolled out in 2006, as the best in Africa. The World Bank team stated this during a working visit to the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) head-office in Lagos. Reacting to the Bank’s positive assessment during his meeting with World Bank and International Finance Corporation (IFC) officials, Managing Director of NPA, Mohammed Bello Koko, stated that the port concession exercise has clearly enhanced Nigeria’s goal of becoming the leading blue economy in Africa, adding that his administration’s focus is to facilitate a port-led industrialization in the country through infrastructural renewal and deployment of modern technology tools. The NPA helmsman told the delegation from the World Bank Nigeria Office led by Olatunji Ahmed and Christian Mulamula, Principal Investment Officer – Infrastructure (IFC), that the Authority duly appreciates the excellent support provided by the World Bank under its private participation in infrastructure (PPI) scheme, “we at NPA fully appreciate that efficient port operations will enable our government and businesses provide services that are affordable and sustainable, leading to reduced poverty and inequality. He urged the Bank to sustain the support and synergy especially now that the Authority is in search of alternative funding sources to bridge its infrastructure gaps. “We look forward to better collaboration with the Bank in the development of more mega or deep-sea ports across the country with world class facilities, high quality and efficient operating system, like the Lekki Deep Seaport is now our priority, ”he declared. He said the 25 Year Port Master-plan which had earlier suffered some glitches is now back on course, stressing that the Authority will work collaboratively with the Bank in the operationalization of the port master-plan. Earlier in his remarks, Ahmed, a Senior Transport Specialist with the Bank, assured his host that the World Bank Group would continue to partner Nigeria and other interested countries to develop transport infrastructure and services that are safe, green, efficient and inclusive. He stated that the Bank is happy to partner with the Authority over the years and intends to continue to provide the assistance to the Authority in the journey towards becoming the preferred destination of cargo in Africa. The World Bank and IFC delegation expressed both organizations willingness to work with NPA in the improvement of port infrastructure under a public private partnership arrangement between the Authority and other third parties. They equally requested for a project tracker report on the actions and milestones recorded in the port concession programme so far. In a related development, the NPA MD along with members of the Management team met with the officials of Bollore Transport and Logistics Nigeria (formerly SDV Nigeria) led by its Managing Director, Folashade Akanni-Shelle.