Ibrahim Shuaibu in Kano Former Senate President, Mr. Bukola Saraki, yesterday declared that President Muhammadu Buhari has grossly failed Nigerians. Saraki, whose Presidential Campaign team visited Kano, Thursday night, said President Buhari promised to provide Nigerians power but the country was now worse off in energy supply. According to him, “President Buhari said he will provide effective security of lives and properties, today, Nigerians cannot even travel to a closer town without being in fear and uncertain of what will happen to them.” Saraki, who was represented by his Campaign Director, ‘Bukola Saraki Presidential Campaign Directorate’, Professor Iyorwuese Hagber, said “Bukola Saraki would certainly take over the government, organise massive reforms, restructure the mentality of Nigerians, and bring back justice, because justice has been compromised by the APC regime, which does not respect separation of powers.” Professor Hagber said they surveyed the number of aspirants contesting the presidency in 2023 and critically looked at the performances of APC/President Muhammadu Buhari, and agreed that only Bukola Saraki would salvage the country from the ineptitude of President Buhari. “The judiciary and the legislative arms have all come under the control of the executive,” he said. “Today, Nigeria is greatly divided along tribes and religion, that is why something urgently must be done to salvage it. “Nigeria is the poorest nation on earth today. They have failed to make Nigerians happy, we are sad and disgusted. Bukola Saraki who is not corrupt would do the magic and wipe out the tears of Nigerians come 2023,” he added. In his address, the Kano State Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Shehu Wada Sagagi, warned the national leadership of the party against allowing former governor of Kano State, Alhaji Rabiu Kwankwaso to decamp from the party. He said any attempt to allow Kwankwaso to defect to another party, it would spell doom for the PDP in view of the fact that Kwankwaso has strong structures across the country. “I’m advising PDP to dialogue with Kwankwaso because if they allow him defect, it will not augur well for the PDP,” he said.