 Omon-Julius Onabu in Asaba The lingering land tussle between the ancient kingdom of Ogwashi-Uku and Ibusa in Delta State yesterday turned bloody with the killing of a member of the vigilance group at Aboh-Ogwash, a satellite town of Ogwashi-Uku. The deceased identified as Mr. Nwike Alao, was reportedly shot at closed range at about 10a.m. when the team accosted some suspected illegal land developers near the Admiralty University in the area. The suspected trespassers were said to have fled the scene on arrival of the vigilance group, leaving behind some items, including a pump-action gun, a bank ATM card, and a passport-sized photograph, which the team reportedly recovered. However, the team was on its way to the office of the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) of Ogwashi-Uku Police Station when gunmen in three vehicles came out and shooting sporadically, as those who fled the ‘illegal’ building site had apparently reinforced and launched an attack. The shooting, which led to the death of the vigilance group member, was said to have occurred near the conference hall (ogwa) of the Okwabani of Aboh-Ogwash (traditional duke), Chief Jude Obidi. Other members of the vigilance group, including the leader of the team, Mr.Nnamdi Nwaebunnor, sustained bullet wounds while their Toyota Sienna patrol vehicle was vandalised and several items, including phones, were stolen. However, THISDAY learnt that Ogwashi-Uku, the administrative headquarters of Aniocha South Local Government Area, and Ibusa, a commercial town in neighboring Oshimili North LGA of the state, have been embroiled in land dispute dating back to pre-independence Nigeria, which has heightened since the creation of Asaba as the capital of the state. Much of the land in the area, including the campus of the Admiralty University on the Asaba/Ogwashi-Uku/Ughelli Road, is believed to be under litigation owing to the lingering dispute. Nevertheless, the Okwabani of Aboh-Ogwash, Obidi, who is the eye of the Obi of Ogwashi-Uku, HRM Ifechukwude Okonjo II, as the satellite town, told THISDAY that though he could not say precisely who masterminded the attack, some persons were arrested in the area by the vigilance group members about three weeks ago for illegal land activities and subsequently handed over to the police. The Delta State Police Command spokesman, Mr. Bright Edafe, confirmed the report, adding that the police were already on the trail of the gunmen with a view to bringing them to book.