Godwin Obaseki and Nyesom Wike: Gubernatorial Recklessness We have been watching and reading the back and forth from these so-called leaders. Yes, I used to really enjoy Wike’s comeback on issues but this is just too much. The statement I have been reading and peddled by many news media shows a very uncouth and rough engagement by these two. Wike, in trying to berate Phillip Shuaib for threatening to leave the PDP, has gone too far by engaging like a drunken sailor in a run-down beer parlour. The words, the sentiments all sound very childlike and ‘unstatesman-like’. I am very sorry; he has lost me this time and I find his engagements not funny at all. Disgraceful is the word. Telling us how he did not eat during Obaseki’s campaign and calling that one a traitor, even going as far as apologising to Oshiomole is just low, down and shameful. What is remaining now is to tell us how Obaseki sleeps with his wife. And this is a leader who has presidential ambitions? Na wa. Obaseki on the other hand — that one cannot even talk well make person hear am — has tried to fight back in his own lame and very amateurish way, calling Wike a bully. Are these leaders? These two? Are these ones the kind of leaders, young emerging leaders should look up to or even be inspired? These two are nothing but motor park politicians hiding under the garb of gubernatorial leadership given to them by a political system that is nothing but ‘toutish’ Otherwise, how can a sane political system throw up these kinds of leaders? Instead of them quickly sorting out whatever ‘tiny’ misgivings they have and face very squarely a much bigger matter of the presidential election, they are busy pulling each other’s tiny ‘d…s’ in public and telling us whose head is bigger and who is uglier. This is what in Shomolu we call ‘yeye dey smell’. Na real yeye. Mtchew. Bola Ahmed Tinubu: Stop Saying This Anytime I see Baba make this statement, I cringe. That the presidency is his lifetime ambition? This is so internal and smirks of an arrogant ambition devoid of what we feel or want as a people. Whoever are his handlers should kindly beg him to stop saying this na. Like Baba has never toasted a woman before? Oya go and be toasting a sweet baby – please try this when Mummy Remi has also gone for her own London medical pilgrimage o.  Don’t say na me push you o when they catch you – and be telling the girl, it has been my lifetime ambition to ‘nack’ you, and watch what will happen to your head. Mbok, your lifetime ambition does not tell us what is in it for us in this deal as a harassed and tormented people. This is especially terrible when you put it side by side with the turbulence we have faced since 2015 and the role Baba played in foisting this on us. It will make us ask what exactly have we done wrong that God has punished us with this pestilence, such that after eight years, he is trying to bring another eight years of woe based on lifetime ambition. Don’t get me wrong o. I think Tinubu is the only one out there running a very serious and credible campaign. He is the most hardworking and has built the most penetrative structure and has been through the length and breadth of this country, selling his candidacy. In fact, if there is an election this weekend, Tinubu would win hands down as a result of his preparedness. For me, if there is an election today barring the unpredictability of the Nigerian political terrain, Tinubu will win hands down. So, this his talk of lifetime ambition should end immediately. He should rather be more apologetic and show us in very concrete terms how he plans to ameliorate the situation, his policies and all that please. Who lifetime ambition help? Diesel na N700  per litre. Per hour hotel don increase price o and condoms now are over N2,000 per pack and NLC will not see this one now o, some of us will soon spark o. Chike Ogeah: A Gloating Ogbueshi This my handsome Oga is gloating o. The man is just so happy and who can blame him. The Sifax Group owns Mcfolly Limited, owners of the wonderful Marriott Hotel where my Lord is the pioneer Managing Director has just been awarded “Hotel of the Year’ by the Travellers’ Association. It does not come as a surprise because the hotel in its very short life has won three very lucrative international crew business and if you understand how that industry works, you will not blame Chike for walking around like a peacock these days. The hotel which was built and opened during the pandemic, has taken the hospitality business by storm, forcefully seeking and taking market leadership and turning the Ikeja GRA hub into the new hospitality hub in the country, impacting on lesser franchises in the area with spill over business. Me sef I agree because I have experienced the place o. The other day, my brother Charles O’Tudor asked me to meet him there for a meeting. I went o. The place was beautiful, elegantly apportioned and world class in everything including service delivery. When my brother Charles saw the menu, he said “Edgar, make we drink coke and take one sandwich.” I replied: “Shebi I don tell you say make we go that Afang woman for Mende go do our meeting, you no gree. See as you come dey call Davos Economic Summit as you see prices.” Anyway, let me use this opportunity to congratulate the team at The Marriott for this immediate impact and do wish them longevity in business. They remain an inspiring franchise to the rest of the nation. Well-done. NGX: N700m A Broker During the week, I saw a THISDAY report on the NGX. Let me first give you guys the highlight before I fire.  The 2021 result released by the Exchange showed an increase in directors emolument by 78.41% to about N423.12 million. Meaning that each of the directors took home about N251.6m the year under review. Now wait for it: management staff stayed put at 26 while non-management staff reduced to 176 from 241 during the period under review. You know what this means? To fund the above director fees, they downsized and moved the saved earnings upstairs. It is well. More is coming on. Remunerations paid to board members excluding pensions and reimbursable allowances increased by a whopping 68.2% to N811.6m from N482.66. All of this against the backdrop of a petit increase in profits of just 22% with revenue growing by only 14%. Na wa What this means at face value is that this is a huge ‘party’. A ‘Neroistic’ type party, where the orgy is ongoing as this ‘Rome’ is burning. Don’t let me talk too much since there seems to be a silver lining in the sky with the success of the demutualisation and the coming in of new and more vibrant shareholders and management led by my brother Temi Popoola, a very brilliant investment banker. The belief and expectation is that corporate governance will be strengthened and the new  board will ensure  much more responsiveness to the vision of the Exchange as against this ‘owambe’ we just saw. Shey you guys now see why one of their Oga wanted to still sit on the Board of the NGX – the Exchange and also the holding company. Who will  see this kind of gravy train and will not do juju to retain his position. I no blame am. So, let’s not talk just yet, make we dey watch for some time to see how things will pan out. But seriously, if this continues some of these our ‘eaglet’ presidential candidates will forget that ambition and come and be submitting CV in this place o. Kai. Even me self will leave Shomolu and come and look for a job at the Exchange o. Onowu Amechi: I Stand by You They have said, “Duke, you have to remain neutral.” I said to them, “common getaway you” like my former classmate at the University of Ibadan, Obinna Ihunna will say when he is faced with a political theory he cannot debunk. I will never stay neutral when at 52, I am facing almost a last opportunity to work for good democratic governance in this country. What jaga jaga neutral. We have to all put hands on deck to put the few good men we have in strategic positions, hence my unwavering support for Akan Udofia in Akwa Ibom. In this vein, I have also discovered my brother Onowu Amaechi in Anambra. He was first introduced to me by my former classmate in the Political Science department of the University of Ibadan and one of the most erudite politicians that I have ever met in my life – shey I have started sounding like Uncle Dele Momodu abi? It is needed – James Etonirun. James had called me much earlier to ask that I watch this particular person. Which I have done very clinically. He is contesting for State Chairman of the PDP and I must say that if Anambra PDP knows what is coming for them, this should be their man. Here are a few things about him. He is the founding member of the party in the state, worked and served former Vice President, Dr. Alex Ekwueme from 1998 to 2009 and you know what type of politics that sage played. State organising Secretary, Vice Chairman of the party and acting Deputy Chairman and wait for it: at no time has he crossed the carpet, moved to another party or been accused of any anti-party activities. It is this consistency that is making some of us root for his candidacy. It is this stoic resolve that we need at all levels of strategic political engagement in this country and this is why, we are appealing very stringently to the delegates of the PDP in Anambra to look very critically at this candidacy and do the right thing. A word! Dr Ibironke Sanwo-Olu: A Happy Mummy I have never had the good fortune of meeting with this very elegant and hardworking First Lady. I have met her by proxy though with very strong positive feedback on her human touch and deep passion for the average Lagosian. Well, this Sunday, I will finally meet her, if she attends our wonderful massage session. That is how I received a letter during the week appointing me Happy Ambassador. The Award is also being given to Her Excellency, His Royal Highness, the Oniru of Iruland, Health Commissioner, Professor Akin Abayomi and ace comedian, Alibaba. In my own case, they say I have brought happiness to Nigerians through my work in theatre, arts and media. I thanked them. But the letter came when the Duchess and I were having a fight. Apparently, we are moving houses and I travelled only to come back to find all my paraphernalia in the new house which has no power but her own things remained intact in the old house with power turning me into a refugee instantly. I didn’t spark o as if I knew they will soon appoint me Happiness Ambassador, I just asked very sweetly, “Adaigha, please how will I watch my xvideos like this?” That was all I asked o and they blocked my line, suspended bedroom activities and barred me from the kitchen. This Duchess sha likes to throw sledgehammer on top every little matter, saying that I didn’t even say thank you but instead I was nagging and because of that I must receive the category of sanctions I am facing like person wey attack Ukraine. Kai. Anyways, I thank the Happiness Centre, a wellness, wholesome and alternative medicine centre for considering me worthy for this award. We are grateful. Two questions though: will I be massaged in the same room as Madam? I will advise against it because you know how Jide can be getting very touchy if you as much as wink at Madam, let alone exposing my ‘one pack’ and well-built body in a massage parlour. We do not want a constitutional crisis in our state o. Finally, will I be having a happy ending, make I prepare come? If you know, you know. Bisi Adebutu: A Challenging Engagement You see, I will for the very first time in my life pick my words. Normally when I write about someone, I will just be blasting without a care, but this time fear is catching me. “Edgar, the next time you ‘hail’ me, I will block you.” That was the terse message I got on my phone after receiving major support for my new play, ‘Baba Kekere’ from this very hardworking businessman. But my Mama did not bring me up like that. How will I not run to the mountain top and proclaim his name? How will I not say a huge thank you to a man who has single-handedly brought life back to this project. Raising money for a theatre project especially for an icon who in his lifetime was a spartan and didn’t ‘make’ a lot of people is worse than selling Afang to an Ibibio man. Many nights I have gone to bed in tears. The hypocrisy of it all is mad. Even Baba Kekere’s Local Government Chairmen whose office is beside his house have turned blank. But we keep trudging and then Bisi comes from nowhere and with nothing to gain but to ensure posterity and history is well chronicled, drops this bomb and he says I should not hail him? Mbok, block me. I will hail you well. Block me oooo, block me oooo. When the alert came, I was in the bathroom doing my daily number ‘2’.  I jumped up and ran down the stairs stark naked to the excitement of the full-grown maid cleaning the room and to the consternation of the Duchess seeing her crown jewels in the full glare of Jemilat. I quickly used the curtain to cover myself and showed her and said, see what Bisi has done o. That Bisi wey no dey ever take my call for one year. Yes na, that Bisi wey be your former oga brother, that one wey dey do like he no like me. Kai, I immediately called Makinde Adeniran, the powerfully gifted director to resume work; we have money now. Bisi Adebutu has ensured that one of the simplest stories of leadership will be told on stage this April. God bless you, my brother. God bless you o. Mbok don’t vex, we are doing Emir Sanusi next, can I come again? E ma binu si me ejo. Ken Etete: A Renaissance Man Some weeks ago, I mentioned that we assembled in his office to eat lunch daily and that we will be pretending to be talking business but eating food. Well, I was taken to task by Alaba and Dipo who ensured that the Afang was finished before I got there and I was served rice with one meat. Well, there is God, no problem. When I start releasing peoples’ nude pictures, they will say Duke is crazy o. Anyways, Ken’s Century Group has emerged as an historic firm. Sometime between 2016 and 2018, my firm Hamilton and George served as advisers to Ken’s Century Group in the acquisition of two floating, production, storage and output units making them the largest indigenous players in that space in Africa. It was many nights of work, toil and sweat to close this deal. Its complexity made the task quite arduous and for us as advisers, it pushed us to the very limit. Thankfully, we closed and immediately got confronted with another challenge. The pandemic made it almost impossible for the two units to be fully deployed, even though one of the FSPO’s was already deployed when we acquired them, it still was a huge challenge engaging them at full capacity. No operator anywhere in the world keeps a ‘non deployed FPSO’ floating complete with its humongous running cost in hard currency. But Century did it and for all of that time pushed its resilience and will to deliver to areas far beyond human capacity. Thankfully, we have sighted the end of the tunnel. The biggest of the two FPSOs is about to be deployed, bringing an end to the long drought. At this point, I think it’s time to congratulate the team at Century with its amiable and visionary leader, Ken Etete and to also congratulate the team at Hamilton and George for a job well-done. Tony Rapu: ‘Shekere’ of Life Some things are quite simple in life but the influence they make are unimaginable. I stumbled on this series and got transfixed. In fact, as I write this column, I am listening to the songs. Apparently, the ‘Shekere’ concert is a very simple concert format that involves the likable Pastor Rapu seated on stage with a long line of singers all of them with the ‘shekere’ and singing some wonderful Christian songs. Mighty o. Very engaging and spirit filled. This is the one that ‘can catch me’. Not all that ‘come and pay your tithe or your balls will roast in hell fire’. I simply just love the format, the songs and most importantly the ‘shekere’ as it all fuses into a powerful engagement. Well-done Pastor, mbok where is your church located make I branch one of these Sundays? Brilliant.