 Ogiame Atuwatse III: An Enthralling Visit My people, my mouth is still wide open after three days. I am in a pleasant shock. That was how my brother Julius Rone set up an appointment with the Olu of Warri on the back of my upcoming play, ‘Ogiame Erejuwa II’ coming up this Easter in Warri. My team was complete. We had Evans Johns-Jakpa, my Co-Executive Producer; influential insurance guru, Austin Ebose Osaghae of Anchor Insurance; Theo John Phillips — no be oyinbo, forget the name, na Yoruba-Igbo man; Oneal, a great Itsekiri son; Ejiro A.Eghagha, my Itsekiri-Urhobo brother from Okpe Kingdom; and Scott Igbene a wonderful Itsekiri media expert. My people, as we enter the throne room, my head start to dey swell. The place was regal. Well apportioned with sweetly royal ambience. Chief Dr Eugene Ikomi gave us the guidelines before we go and offend tradition. Nice man, very warm and fatherly. I really like him. Wait o, that was how the Ogiame walked in. God, it was like I was seeing that angel — I don forget him name o — that one that in the Bible they said was very fine. This king was a king o. Not like all that ‘kobo kobo’ king we used to see at bus stops all over the place throwing banga. This one was tall, extremely handsome and almost superhuman. His apparels were truly kingly. He walked with a majestic gait, smiling intermittently and in slow motion. My head was just swelling. Piss was catching me and goose pimples full my body. Tears started coming out of my eyes as cold was catching me. I cried as I watched with immense pride, culture in its full essence. Its richness and suppleness transfixed me as I wept for our people who not knowing our proud heritage continue to roll in the mud in collective servitude. We introduced ourselves and Evans spoke for our group. They asked me to speak o. I stood up and gave the speech of my life. I talk o and Ogiame was just smiling as I spoke. I spoke like an orator singing like a cannery and I saw that the Ogiame loved me o. Then he asked, “Why Duke of Shomolu?” I cannot lie for Ogiame before I turn into a clay of salt. I told him the truth that it was my ‘maiguard’ in Shomolu that gave me the name. He laughed. Then he spoke and I cried again. In very deliberate and studied mannerism stemming from a well cultured background, the Ogiame grabbed a member of our team, Scott and said “I have never met your grandmother but I see her face in your face. Your grandfather was an Ogiame but he stayed for only 18 months.” Scott started shaking like someone with Ebola. He held me to steady himself as Ogiame continued with the history of Scott’s family. Me, I was just thanking God that Scott’s grandfather didn’t steal any of Ogiame’s grandfather’s wife because that is how we would have carried ourselves enter this one. Me, I for turn to cockroach and escape to Shomolu. When Ogiame finished with Scott, he was a mess. Scott cried for the next three hours. “Edgar, I will fly in for the show and fly out again to honour you, thank you so much.” My people, by this time, I wished I had worn pampers because the piss just dribbled out. The charisma, the essence, the rich tradition, the beauty, the power and the Ogiame himself, I just fall down in front of him with my head on the floor in total humility and submission to a rich people as symbolised by this handsome king. At the end of it all and over plates of banga soup and starch – me, I ate melon pepper soup with Theo taking all the fish – we recalled what just happened. My mouth is still wide open. Even as I recounted everything to Julius, my mouth was wide open. One Itsekiri man I met said: “Edgar, what you saw was not a human being. Ogiame represents the Itsekiri spirit and that is what you saw.” My people, if I try to see that spirit one more time, my head go explode. It was just too much. Long live this king, long live Ogiame and may the people of Iwere land progress and find long lasting peace during and long after his reign. Kai. Funsho Doherty: The Battle of Eko Would you call this a battle? My friends have all been calling, “Edgar, don’t you know Funsho Doherty, he is contesting for Lagos governorship and you should support.” I know him and will not support him. Funsho is one of the most brilliant and astute financial people you will find. Integrity is his other name and you will not find any one more disciplined but an ‘aje butter’ he is. I met someone recently in Shomolu and I wept for Nigeria. The man is one of those people you call enforcers in politics with his own underground army. By the time he finished telling me about the underground cartels that control the political space, I just gave up. Even my senatorial ambition in 2027 is shaky now. How will I understand the gun politics, the thuggish power and the maiming and killings that is needed to ensure not only victory and sustain a race in power. You have not added the juju and clannish cultism that comes to play. My people, e be like say na ‘blue film’ actor go get me for retirement instead of this politics thing. Nigeria will survive. I will not be involved in all these to win an election. So, when I compare Funsho and his ilk’s involvement in politics for altruistic reasons, I just smirk and walk away. Can this Funsho engage MC Oluomo? Does he know who controls the markets, the agbero’s all over the place? Does he understand that the INEC polling delineations are not the real ones but the ones controlled by these underground agents? Does he know how the structures that permeate the state are controlled and by who? Can he carry ‘ebo’ complete with ostrich feather and scrota of a Lizard with sperm of a dead tortoise to Third Mainland bridge at midnight? My people, after that man talked to me, showing me pictures and other evidence permeating all over southern Nigeria, I just gave up. So, my brother Funsho, come and join me make we dey do theatre, this thing no be the way we see am o. Leave am. My brotherly advice. Pastor Taribo West and Brothers: True Agents of Change My own is how ‘wowo’ these people have emerged after such illustrious careers. As I looked at the images, I began to ask myself just what happened. Our golden boys of yesteryears, our superstars, why dem no come fine again. They are not aging well o. Even Okocha come look like Ngige for my eye. Anyways, the visit of our old time heroes to the frontrunner of the race, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu has created so much furore in the country. Now, everybody that visits any candidate will receive a lot of odium and abuse. As I write, Timi Dakolo is receiving his own for going to sing for Atiku. You know that one, he is fighting back. He no send anybody o. Taribo has been singled out. He has been compared to his former colleague George Weah who is now President of Liberia forgetting that that one is showing his people ‘shege.’ My take is very simple. Every Nigerian has the inalienable right to support any candidate of their choice and we should all just stop this rubbish. Every time someone goes to visit Tinubu we will be abusing them. That is how they abuse my brother Tope Fasua for writing an essay in support of Tinibu’s ambition. The day I go to Bourdillon and anybody abuse me,  I will just slap them because I don’t have time for rubbish. You see that Bianca’s slap will be a small thing compared to the one I will give the first person that comes near me after any such visit. The main thing in this is the failed strategy of approaching this group. Those who planned this visit were obviously hoping for nostalgic followership not taking into consideration that this would have no bearing whatsoever in electoral value. That motley crew of journeymen that was packed to see Asiwaju is like carrying 1929 Enugu Coal men to canvass for votes. Nothing will be gained both on the electoral field and in the public space. This begins to make me suspect the competence of those handling Tinubu’s strategy. What demographics were they trying to capture – youths who love football? Middle aged ones like me who adored these old soldiers or the critical mass who actually vote? If you look at these three questions, the answer would be staring at you. These gangs cannot do anything in those spaces. They do not command any major interest amongst the football mad youths who have moved on with new heroes. My generation – 35- 55 are more discerning and wiser who will not even give Taribo or Kanu a fair hearing when serious political debate is going on.  Can Taribo stand a heated debate on the dialectics of post-colonial hubris in the political space and its devastating effect on political cohesion in present day Nigerian state? So, you see why Asiwaju has to look at his strategy team and ask them some very critical questions. I hope they are not just eating Amala and losing focus o. When is Tinubu Coming to Akwa Ibom? I have been watching and observing. All the tours and trips being carried out by Baba, he never reach our side o. Why hasn’t he visited us or is it because we are only six million people? This thing is annoying me o. Reminds me of my former driver at BGL who once told me that his wife was worried that he was not cheating, asking him if she was the only woman in the world that wanted him. My oga, even though we are not plenty and are fully right of centre making us lean more towards PDP than your APC, you should still come and at least eat our Afang. Something tells me that even you, you know that by the time you come, we will distract you with our delicious soups, our wonderful topography both physical and human that Nigeria may just be saved with your decision to retire and spend the rest of your life with us on the beaches of Ibeno, swigging fresh palm wine and taking tours of our famed fattening rooms where you would be opened to the very best in curvy and voluptuous wonders. Happened to my father-in-law, David Olude, the great war photographer from Ogun State who retired to Calabar with a wonderful number and only came back to Lagos to die and be buried by his wonderful son in law, me. Mbok, someone should push Baba to Akwa Ibom o. Uncle Soni Irabor: Happy 70th Let me quickly send out a birthday shout out to my Uncle, Soni Irabor. I spoke with him over the week and he mentioned he would be turning 70. I quickly used the opportunity to beg him to put me back into his WhatsApp group. They had kicked me out for putting nudity in the group. Anyhow, Uncle agreed but till date he never put me back. I no vex, you know how old people dey forget easily. Uncle Soni don old, he don reach the stage where he would need to take a younger wife……. Aghhhhhh sorry o I didn’t mean that o before Aunty Betty will come and knock my head. Uncle has been an icon with his very brilliant wife Aunty Betty. They have contributed significantly to the growth of the media industry and I wish them very well at this auspicious moment of Uncle Soni’s birthday. Happy birthday my lord. Willie Obiano: But Why? Well, I heard the EFCC has disciplined the erring official who did that. That was low. Very low especially as nothing has been proven against the erstwhile governor. That was humiliating not only to him but to Nigerians as a whole. The man had just had his wife slapped, 24 hours after being arrested and now this. Just how much can a man take? Not fair at all. You see, the dignity of every man must be protected at all times, especially by our law enforcement agencies. Those days of military madness, when they go and plot a coup against themselves, they will still salute and say ‘Sir, you are under arrest’. In fact, as they are pushing them into Kirikiri, they still reserve their respect and dignity. This Obiano’s picture has brought this matter to the fore. If you mistakenly enter police trouble in this country, you will see the way they will take your testicles and wrap it around your legs and if you like some of us have small testicles then you have to look for something and give them to wrap o. That picture was despicable, mischievous and a disgrace to the organisation it emanated from, serving no purpose. It should never happen again and I thank God they have done the needful. Good. Lagos State Task Force of Thieves That was how I fell into a booby trap set up by the Lagos Task Force in Iganmu. The management of the National Theatre had diligently put a ‘no entry’ sign by the road just before the iconic institution currently undergoing renovation but the ‘yeye’ task force people had removed the sign so that unwitting motorists would fall into their devilish trap. That was how I fell o. I was going to the National Theatre to watch the rehearsal of my new play “Baba Kekere’ when I fell into their trap. Before I realised it, three bikes carrying six of the dirtiest policemen I have ever encountered in my life appeared, oozing alcohol and just smelly. “Oga that na one way,” they barked. I said “No, that turning is not one way by any stretch of the imagination. I have taken the road all of my life.” That was English. Before I knew what was going on, they had ‘captured’ my car. Told me to jump in so that “we go talk.” I said, “At least, make una wear facemask.” They drove me towards Iganmu and the negotiations started. They said N350,000 or we ticket you and take you to the station. “We are governor’s task force,” they kept saying with glee. I said, “Please una no know me o. I be Duke of Shomolu, one phone call and career don end o. Make una just leave me and catch another mumu.” They didn’t listen o. They were being commanded by an officer over the walkie talkie and he was screaming, “Anything over N300k collect and na cash.” They said, “You see. It is over our heads.” I told them to wait, let me call someone. I called my Oga, a very diligent policeman and he spoke to them and their reply to him was “Oga, we have heard.” They turned to me and said, “That is English. Him dey office we dey road dey suffer. He cannot command us. Oya, as you don talk to oga bring N200,000.” These policemen wanted to collect their pension and gratuity from me o. Me that used to defend their rights. Please anything that want to happen to the police let it happen abeg. Even if they want to owe their salary for eternity, their business. I no do again. I have suffered in police hand too much. Kai. Finally, we had found ourselves in the middle of nowhere between the National Theatre and Ijora. This was no man’s land and I was being robbed by those paid to protect me. The real robbers were just laughing as they walked past. One even said, “Oga when you finish with am send am here make I collect him wristwatch.” Then I noticed that one of them spoke English with an Ishan accent. So, I said to him “my wife na Fugar, why you dey do me like this?” He screamed “Na lie.” So, I called my third wife who spoke their language and the man suddenly turned saviour. You see why polygamy is good. Na “my in-law” he screamed. “No wonder I don dey look am since. Na my in-law.” He told his brothers in crime to let me go and turned to me and said, “please give us anything wey you get, hungry too much. The one on the walkie talkie threatened to kill him and he blasted that one. “I no fit do this kind thing to my in-law, he marry my sister.” I gave him N50,000 as dash not bribe, because he saved me from his gang. They now escorted me back to the theatre and waved me bye. Now anytime I write about this kind of experience, police will now call me and be saying please can you identify the people the exact location. Mbok make nobody call me. I am not interested. This whole thing reeks from the low to the top as they were receiving instructions on a walkie talkie from someone with authority. If you are serious about ending this, you will know what to do. Please don’t call me o. I have not had an erection since that trauma, make una leave me let me go sort out my pain. Rubbish. Glory Etim-Eziekiel: Happy Birthday Mayen is my only sister and she celebrated her birthday recently so you will permit me to serenade her here. She has always said, “Joe, won’t you ever write about me in your column? My friends all read you and will be saying when will your brother write about you.” Na lie o, na style to be written about. But why won’t I even write about my only sister? She is my mother now. She stands like an Iroko tree in our family and envelopes all of us with her warmth. I love her so desperately, so madly that I fail to fathom life without her. When I was arrested, people came to visit me inside the cell with all sorts of- why did they do this to you, you are the Duke of Shomolu. Let’s fight, let’s get Gani, let’s call Ambode. You never call Kekere-Ekun? Make we jump fence, make we run away. But Mayen came and just cried. That was all I needed at the time and she knew. She just held me and cried her eyes out. Me sef, I cry with am. Na family thing, na only us sabi the thing. We both cried so tey the EFCC people weak sef. After the tear fest, she gave me Afang and walked away. That is my sister o, the great Mayen Glory Ezekiel. Ezekiel is her lovely husband who has been nothing but a true angel to the family. Mayen will continue to be an illuminating and powerful figure in my life. I will love her for eternity and will continue to pray to God that she keeps her for me. She will grow and flourish in the name of Almighty God. All the prayer is because I never get money buy gift yet so we dey soften her with this write up so she no go remember say we never buy the perfume.