 Dike Onwuamaeze The KAP Film and Television Academy (KFTA) in partnership with Mastercard Foundation’s Young Africa Works (YAWs) has announced the opening of applications for its training in film and television production. The initiative is meant to train 300,000 persons in three years, according to KFTA, adding that those legible to apply should be young men and women between the ages of 20 and 35 across Nigeria. It said further that the training, “is targeted at people passionate about film and television production. Over the next three years, a total of 300,000 young Nigerians will be trained under this initiative.” Interested individuals were asked to apply to register by visiting the KAP Academy website (https://www.apply.kap.academy/)beginning from today (Tuesday, March15, 2022). A statement that was signed by the Film Director of KFTA, Mr. Kunle Afolayan, said the selection process would take into consideration a gender balance ratio to. Afolayan further noted that 40 per cent of candidates to be selected would be drawn from young women and men from low-income backgrounds. He said: “Successful programme applicants will become the first set of beneficiaries in the training scheme that will formally commence in April 2022. “The academy is focused on growing the next generation of skilled filmmakers through the tutelage of veterans and film professionals who provide hands-on experience in diverse aspects of filmmaking to enrolled students.” He said the training would include, “’The Masterclass Series’ and two levels of certification from professional institutions in the areas of screen writing, sound, editing, directing, cinematography and production design, among others, as well as practical hands-on training.” The KAP Academy would be leveraging smart phone technology for the training as teaching would be conducted through a learning app. The aim of Mastercard Foundation’s Young Africa Works initiative is to enable 30 million young people, particularly young women across Africa, to access dignified work. It stated that free tuition and smart phone devices would be offered to students from less privileged backgrounds as part of the support to ensure young people enrolled in the programme and have access to the tools required for digital learning.