 •Says Obiano’s arrest, detention not politically motivated •Ex-governor granted bail, yet to perfect bail condition •Subjects officer, who leaked video to disciplinary action Kingsley Nwezeh The Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Mr. Abdulrasheed Bawa, yesterday said the commission had within the last one year recovered N152 billion, $386 million and recorded 2, 220 convictions. This is coming as the commission said the arrest and detention of the immediate past Governor of Anambra State, Chief Willie Obiano, was not politically motivated. Bawa said the former governor had been granted bail but was yet to meet his bail condition. Also, the agency said it was subjecting an EFCC officer, who leaked Obiano’s video while in detention to the public to disciplinary action. Speaking at the opening ceremony of the 5th Annual General Assembly (AGA) meeting of the Network of National Anti-Corruption Institutions in West Africa (NACIWA), Bawa said the anti-graft agency secured 2,222 convictions and recovered N152 billion, $386 million among other recoveries. He stated that out of the 2,222 convictions recorded in the last one year, 641 took place in 2022 alone. “The commission has also embarked on several reforms aimed at strengthening the institution, including the development of a reporting application named Eagle Eye, to ease the reporting of incidences of economic and financial crimes by the public. “The EFCC has further developed a five-year strategic plan that guides its operational approach in law enforcement action,” he said. The NACIWA Assembly was co-hosted by both the EFCC and the Independent Corrupt Practices and other Related Offences Commission (ICPC). Meanwhile, the anti-graft agency said the former Anambra governor had been granted bail, but was yet to perfect his bail condition. Bawa denied that his arrest was politically motivated. “There is nothing political about the investigation. You know what the EFCC stands for. We investigate crimes, we look at people that have committed crimes and we link it up together and then we go to court. That is all we have been doing and that is what we will continue to do,” he said. “We have been accused of media trial. But we will continue to do our investigation professionally. “He has been granted bail and we are waiting for him to perfect his bail conditions he has been cooperating with us and everything is going on well,” he added. The anti-graft agency had said Friday, that Obiano was arrested over alleged misappropriation of N42 billion security vote and Sure-P funds. Obiano was arrested on Thursday night at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Lagos while preparing to board a flight to Texas, United States. The EFCC had in November last year placed the former governor on its watchlist. Meanwhile, the commission said, in a statement, that it was subjecting its officer, who leaked Obiano’s video while in detention to the public to disciplinary action. “The attention of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, has been drawn to a trending video showing the former Governor of Anambra State, Chief Willie Obiano in the custody of the Commission. “The commission wishes to distance itself from the said video which is completely at variance with the established Standard Operating Procedure of the EFCC”, he said. It said “a discreet investigation ordered upon discovery of the leak has revealed the errant officer behind the odious act and he is currently being subjected to appropriate disciplinary action”.