 David-Chyddy Eleke in Awka As the Governor-elect of Anambra State, Prof Chukwuma Soludo, approaches his swearing-in as governor this week, the Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN) has held a benediction prayer for his incoming government. The group also passed a vote of confidence on its state Chairman, Bishop Moses Ezedebego, saying his four years term has stabilised the Pentecostal movement in the state, urging him to seek a second term. The crusade, which was held for three days in Awka, the Anambra State capital, ended at the weekend with prayers for the success of the incoming Soludo administration which will begin next Thursday. Ezedebego, who addressed Christians at the crusade, said two weeks to the state governorship election held on November 6, the group came together and prayed for its success, and that God should eliminate violence in that election. “God did it for us, and that election was free of any bloodshed. We do not know what God did for us in that election. Before the election, some people called their relatives to leave the state, but we gathered here and prayed and God heard us. “All of you can attest that the election was the most credible and peaceful we have ever had in Nigeria. So, one week to the swearing-in, we are here to bless the incoming administration,” he said. The presiding Bishop of Grace of God Mission, Paul Nwachukwu, during the sermon, described Soludo as an upright man who God has given to Anambra State. He said: “He has come to turn around the state. There is no Anglican or Catholic in the bible, so Soludo must eschew religious politics and carry along everyone as the leader of the state and not as the leader of any group. “What God did in Anambra will also touch Nigeria. The time has come to do something new in Nigeria. An Igbo man is about to take over Nigeria. Nigeria will never know the best until an Igbo man becomes president. God is bringing an Igbo man. An Igbo man is a believer in Christ.” Chairmen of the group in the 21 local government areas of the state also read out a communique, supporting the state chairman, Ezedebego, for his achievements in the state. Rev Stephen Ogbu, the chairman of PFN in Idemili North, who read out the communique, told journalists that with Soludo coming on board as governor, the group needs a proactive chairman like Ezedebego, who will liaise with Soludo and also provide spiritual backing to move the state forward.