 Mary Nnah The Senator Representing Borno South, Borno State, Senator Ali Ndume, has said that his preferred candidate for the chairmanship of the All Progressive Congress (APC) is the most qualified person for the position. Ndume said that such a person must be somebody that could stand on his own and should be a man of his own. He said: “Such person must be a man that cannot be manipulated, that can talk to anybody and can serve as a leader or father to all and which can listen to people and then take decision based on maturity and for the good of all of us.” Ndume who described the crises rocking the ruling party as very unfortunate and worrisome, said that this was not unusual in politics, adding, “It is all about interests.  The concern was that the interest of the individual is being allowed to override the general interest of the party. Unfortunately, the president who is the leader of the party has responded by issuing out a statement last week.” Expressing the hope that with the intervention of President Buhari in the party’s disputes during the weekend, which appears to have calmed the nerves of feuding governors who apparently have agreed to shield their swords for now in preparation for the party’s convention scheduled for March 26, there was hope that things would fall in line. Speaking on Arise TV News yesterday on the turn of events in the APC and the direction it members should take, Ndume noted that “as for the candidates, for me, we have passed that stage.” He stressed further that since the candidates have shown interests and it is in the constitution of the party that there are three ways you do elections into various offices. “One is by consensus, the second is by indirect primaries and the other option is by direct primaries.”,they had the liberty to contest. He noted, however, that the party has not reached an agreement yet. “We haven’t gotten there yet and the leadership is still talking and the president is very much in charge. And I am very hopeful now that with the recent development, especially with the statement issued during the weekend by the president, I think we will get everybody into line and do the right thing. “The candidates that have indicated interests depend on where the chairmanship is zoned to. I am aware but not really sure that the party candidacy for the national chairman has been zoned to the North Central and if that is the case, we have about five candidates contesting for that position there,” he said.