 Chuks Okocha in Abuja The chairman of the PDP Governors forum and the Sokoto state governor, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal has urged stakeholders of the party to eschew bitterness and remain united in a bid to realize the party’s bid to win the 2023 Presidential election.Also  at the PDP national secretariat, a group paid N5 million for the expression of interest and N35 million for the nomination form.The group, Northeast Business Forum, led by Senators Abdul Ningi and Abubakar Dalatu Funakayi  were received by the National Organising Secretary Umoru Barure.  Thereafter, they proceeded to Atiku Abubakar’s residence in Asokoro, Abuja to present the nomination form to him .In the same manner, the chairman of the PDP Governors Forum who is a  presidential hopeful on the platform of the PDP said consultations were ongoing towards a  possible declaration for the contest.Tambuwal who spoke after  a consultative meeting with chairmen of the 36 state chapters of the party at the Sokoto state governor’s lodge, Abuja,  said PDP was the party to beat in 2023.According to the Sokoto state governor,  “Unity of purpose and understanding and working together for us to actually realize the all important goal of rescuing Nigeria is very important. “Consultations are ongoing and we will have to comply with the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC guidelines as a responsible political party. So nothing stops the consultations from continuing.“Our party stands a chance and it is the party to beat in Nigeria today,” he said.Also,  Hassan Hyat, chairman of the Kaduna state chapter of PDP  and the chairman of PDP states chairmen said that the meeting was convened  to officially inform the states chairmen  of the governor’s  intent to vie for the Office of the President in 2023.Hassan Hyat  called on all aspirants to close ranks and urged them not to forget that the Office of the President would only have a single occupant at any given time.According to him, “We are more interested in the unity of the party as our number one cardinal objective because we believe that the party has to come back to rescue Nigeria and we are asking everybody to join forces.“We cannot have more than one President at a time and therefore, among all others, there must be unity of purpose amongst them like just among all other members of the party. We want to move together and we want to make sure that whoever picks the ticket wins the election.“So to us, it is not just an issue of primaries, it is an issue of the secondary election which is more important,” he stated.Also speaking, the former governor of Sokoto state, Attahiru Bafarawa, said he was in the “Tambuwal for President” ship because “I know personally he is capable and can do it.”He urged the party chairmen to take their place in the sun by cultivating productive friendship that would impact positively on them even after elections are over.“All aspirants want to see the chairmen now After the elections,  they will forget about you. I’m telling you, the man seated with me here (Tambuwal) will never in life abandon you. If I know that he will abandon you, honestly speaking, I will not be with him. So I know who I am following and I am confident that he will never abandon you,” he said.At Atiku’s residence, a PDP chieftain and Supporter, Raymond Dopkesi said that the former vice president will formerly declare for Presidency on Wednesday  March 23.Also speaking, Dino Maleye described Atiku as the Ronaldo of PDP as well as the Messi of PDP., explaining that his mandate was stolen in 2019. He stated that since the mandate was stolen in 2019,  that he is out to recover the stolen mandate in 2023..The chairman of the Northeast Business Forum, Alhaji Abubakar Dalatu Funakayi  said that the nomination form was bought without a kobo from Atiku. In his comment, Atiku thanked the group and said that he was on a rescue mission. Mocking President Muhammadu Buhari, he said “I want to assure that when I’m sick I will tell you. I have cough”He explained that what was happening now was what happened in 2018 when a group bought a form for him..Atiku said that Nigeria has serious challenges facing it from collapsing economy, security and that this challenges cannot be accompanied by an individual. “What is before us is not an easy job.  The challenges before us requires unity not ethnicity and religious bigotry and they are not part of my agenda. It needs the cooperation of all Nigerians. The challenges facing Nigeria should motivate  us to make sacrifice for the growth of Nigeria “, Atiku said.He stressed that for the Northeast Business Forum to bring out their hard earned money to buy the nomination form for him was more than enough sacrifice.