Society Watch  It was Prof. Femi Osofisan, an acclaimed literary giant, who aptly titled one of his award-winning plays, “Birthdays Are Not For Dying’’. Indeed, birthdays are supposed to be occasions for the celebration of life by the living. Birthdays are also a period when the celebrator takes stock of his or her life and feels like climbing the mountaintop to shout Hallelujah. Undoubtedly, if there is any human being who has experienced the proverbial Seventh Heaven, typical of a woman who has just safely been delivered of a baby, it is no other than Tony Elumelu, the quintessential banker, businessman and philanthropist. As this financial wizard celebrated his 59th birthday last Tuesday, not a few shared in his joy. The reason is not far-fetched. The “birthday boy” means so many things to so many people in and outside the country. Many of his friends, business associates as well as mentees, fans and admirers rained encomiums, goodwill and birthday messages on him. Adewale Tinubu, Oando Group Chief Executive wrote on his Instagram account: “I celebrate an energetic, vibrant and inspirational leader. Your steadfast commitment to sustainable prosperity via enterprise has made a profound difference in the lives of young entrepreneurs. “Your support for the older entrepreneurs in the African business community as a whole has changed the narrative for the positive transformation of the continent. Wishing you many more transformative years. Happy Birthday Tony Elumelu.’’ Also, one of his mentees at Tony Elumelu Foundation wrote: “Today is a special day at the Tony Elumelu Foundation as it is our Founder @tonyoelumelu birthday! We are wishing Africa’s foremost visionary a most wonderful birthday! TOE is a figure that embodies a total commitment to the growth of the African continent and all of our people. His vision to democratise luck sits at the heart of all we do here at the Foundation in empowering African entrepreneurs, and his phenomenal journey remains an inspiration to many across the world. “Join us in celebrating our Founder today and be sure to drop a comment about how much Tony Elumelu means to you.” The messages on social media were almost endless as people tried to out-do one another to pen goodwill messages for him as if there was a trophy for the best writer. Of course, this indicates that Elumelu is well-loved and appreciated by all. Elumelu, according to reports, had shown traces of precocity very early in life. Though he might not be said to have been clairvoyant, his childhood betrayed him as a potentially great person in life. As a child, his dream was to become one of the greatest economists and bankers in the world. Luckily, providence has granted him his heart’s desire. No doubt, at 59, he has contributed to the growth of Nigeria’s economy as well as the growth of many citizens of the country more than most people alive today. Despite his status as a member of the upper crust, Elumelu doesn’t believe in pulling up the ladder behind him. The Delta State-born billionaire has been a fierce advocate of policies to promote opportunity. For over two decades, the UBA Foundation – the Corporate Social Responsibility arm of the UBA group – has been giving back and changing lives through initiatives that support education, empowerment and the environment on the African continent. His personal platform, Tony Elumelu Foundation, has been empowering young African entrepreneurs across all 54 African countries. But the Heirs Holdings boss is not done yet as he’s taking his charity beyond the continent.