*Wike declares intention to contest for president in 2023Chuks Okocha in Abuja, George Okoh in Makurdi and Blessing Ibunge in Port Harcourt The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the South-east geo-political zone has aligned with the position of the Southern Governors’ Forum that the next president of Nigeria should come from the southern part of the country.This is just as Governor Nyisom Wike of Rivers State has declared his intention to run for the office of the President of Nigeria in the 2023 election, under  the PDP. Furthermore, the PDP south-east also directed that the existing zoning patterns in states and constituencies of the zone must be strictly observed and adhered to in every state and constituency of the zone.According to a statement, briefing newsmen after the Zonal Executive Committee (ZEC) meeting of the PDP, held in Enugu, and attended by the leader of the party in the south-east and Governor of Enugu State, Rt. Hon. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, his Abia State counterpart, Dr. Okezie Victor Ikpeazu, the National Secretary of the Party, Senator Sam  Anyanwu, members of the State and National Assemblies, members of PDP National Executive Committee (NEC), Board of Trustees (BOT) members, among others, the National Vice Chairman (South East), Chief Ali Odefa, disclosed that it was unanimously agreed that the PDP should zone the presidency of the Federal Republic of Nigeria to the southern part of the country ahead of the party primaries. Odefa added that the PDP south-east stands with the resolution of the Southern Governors’ Forum, “that the Office of the Presidency should be zoned to the southern part of Nigeria”.On the issue of zoning at the state and constituency levels in the zone, the PDP National Vice Chairman stated: “We said where there are zoning patterns they must be strictly observed and adhered to in every state and constituency.” Odefa added: “We also went ahead to make interventions for our members who are holding political and elective positions in Anambra State who didn’t defect to other political parties in the time of the election but stood by the party (PDP) in times of bad weather, that they should be given support to return back to their various offices”.He, therefore revealed that the zonal leadership of the party would make a presentation to the National Working Committee for assistance in that regard. Wike Declares Interest to Contest for Presidency Meanwhile, Wike has declared to run for the office of the President of Nigeria in the 2023 election under the PDP.Wike who made this known when he visited his Benue State counterpart, Samuel Ortom at the Government House in Makurdi, yesterday, said he was making his intention to contest for presidency known for the first time in Benue.He argued that he was the best Nigerian for the job, boasting that the PDP would remove the APC from power.“To remove APC from power, I’m the person who can tell them enough is enough. We must take this power and I’m ready to take it for PDP. God is with us that’s why APC keeps failing every day,” he added. Wike also urged stakeholders to give him their mandates and not to sell their votes, assured that he has the capacity to, “face this evil government.“He queried those founding fathers who ran away from the party and still want to be recognised, saying,”  by the time you ran away, you sold your share as a founding father so you can no longer retain your position of founding fathers. “I stood for this party; I work for this party since 1998. I have nowhere to run to and that’s why anything that happens to this party I take personally. I have never relented.“In 2015, those who ran away made us lose election, today, they are crying but some of us stood and said PDP will not die.“Some people want to use Nigeria to buy back their personal business, they talk about private sector. Mention the private business that survive. Is it banks that your father had? Everybody is an employer of labour. Even in my house I have 50 people who feast from me. “They should stop deceiving us. I have performed as a governor and carry my shoulders high anywhere. I have the capacity to face this evil government. Just give me the mandate. I will speak the truth to power and nothing but the truth. I have the capacity to move this country forward,” he said.