A collaborative 16.7km road project powered by Edo State Government, the Nigerian National Petroleum Company Limited, and Enageed Resources Limited, a Sahara Group Upstream Company is set to transform the fortunes of residents of Ikpako and Ajoki communities in Edo State, Nigeria, writes Adibe Emeyonu You could literally feel the excitement as men and women in Ajoki and Ajamimogha gathered in huddles to savour the moment that had been long awaited. They were receiving reports from residents who had witnessed the event that signaled the commencement of the Ikpako-Ajoki road. There eyes said it all. They bore a message of hope for a future that holds a new beginning. They would disperse in trickles, still chatting excitedly. It wasn’t difficult to share the joy of the moment when one considers how long the proposed construction of the road had been in the pipeline. For the beneficiaries, Thursday, February 10, 2022 – the day the road project was finally set in motion – would remain indelible in their minds. It was their road to promise and development; the bearer of goodwill for students, entrepreneurs, trade, farmers, businesses and even users from within and outside Nigeria. It would connect people with opportunities, every journey eliciting the ultimate experience that encourages unity, progress, peace, and prosperity. Situated in Ovia North East and Ikpoba-Okha Local Government Areas of the state, the road project cuts across several oil bearing and agrarian communities of Obatan, Evbuorokho, Ajoki, Abala, Kolokolo and Ajamokha, in Ovia North East and Ikpoba-Okha local government areas. Smart Kekene, a retired Police officer and Trust President Ajoki Community believes that the road project will promote safer mobility of Ajoki indigenes and reduce the number of water-related accidents in the community. This opinion was shared by the Trust President, Ajamogha community, Bawo Otokpere, who also expressed delight  that the road would improve access to health care facilities for the women and children of the community. In the same vein, a community driver and Women leader in Ajoki, Happy Biakpa and Esther Kona respectively, said the road, when completed will reduce the wear and tear and improve the longevity of vehicles that ply the area as well as cost of living. According to Jospeh Omasa, Community Youth Vice Chairman and a farmer in Ajoki Community, the road holds a huge promise for youth empowerment and entrepreneurship – a development that will address restiveness among young people in the community. Josiah Fifen- Community Elder, Ajoki Community is delighted that the road will make it easier for older people like himself to visit their children in neighbouring cities as against the use of boat which could be a lot more stressful and dangerous for people his age. Talk about connect people and cementing fond memories. Isaac Ajatiton and Abal Mene, both entrepreneurs are excited about the project. They cannot wait for the completion and the boost it would give their business. Otsof Popo – Entrepreneur and Youth Chairman Ajamimogha Community equally believes that the road will create job opportunities for the youth who want to engage in road transportation business just as Robinson Otikpere, Secretary Ajamimogha Community said the road will particularly benefit young people who want to reside in the community and work in neighbouring cities. Of course, market economics had to be considered in the development. Madam Christy Boyo – Market woman and Woman Leader Ajamimogha Community was delighted at the prospects of reduced agricultural losses as the road would ensure quick and easy transportation of their farm produce to the market. One of the highlights of the flag-off ceremony was the assurance by the parties involved that the project will be handled by a first-rate constructing firm, while a consulting firm will provide an additional layer of quality control to cover all the phases of the construction and extend to post construction. No compromises. Speaking at the flag-off ceremony, the NNPC Group Managing Director, Mele Kyari noted that the objective behind the road construction was to enhance national development, adding that the NNPC would continue to support development across the nation. Executive Director, Sahara Group, Temitope Shonubi said: “Today we are celebrating the dawn of new opportunities and it is important to also note that the road is not to promote accessibility only, but to join communities together and bring development to them in a sustainable manner.” Sahara Group’s upstream subsidiary, Enageed Resource Limited is the arm of the energy conglomerate that is providing resources for the project in addition to the NNPC and Edo State Government. Shonubi disclosed that Sahara has in a bid to boost power supply in Ajoki, launched the Rural Electrification project, an innovative initiative that is focused on supplying electricity to the community through the conversion of flared gas from the flow station into power using a gas-powered generator. He said in addition to a reduction in the amount of gas flared in the environment, a new source of clean energy will be provided, directly powering tens of thousands of beneficiaries, including businesses, hospitals, schools, and households in those communities “Sahara Group continues to leverage its robust stakeholder relations and collaboration to positively impact communities where we operate and help create ecosystems that supports shared prosperity through sustainable interventions,” he said. Flagging-off of the road project, Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, said the road project would open the areas to economic development activities. He noted, “We are making history not just because we are constructing another road; we have constructed so many roads in Edo State, but this road is special. Before now, we used to suffer the embarrassment of accessing Edo communities from Delta State. “With this road, we can now access all the Edo communities in this region. This road is going to be an economic road because it is connecting oil-producing communities. Not just the communities but the activities that these companies bring. We are likely to see a road that will now begin to bring in more than just agricultural produce. It will also boost oil and gas production. This road is unique in terms of the way we conceived it and it gives us hope.” This is a development that showcases the importance of public private partnerships in fostering economic development. It signposts a new beginning for Ikpako-Ajoki communities and stands out as a model the nation needs to see playing out across the nation. Perhaps a good place to end would the comment by Mr. Shonubi about roads being comparable to arteries in the human body. He said: “Like the all-important arteries in the human body, the Ikpako-Ajoki road is set to open a mine of opportunities that will connect almost one million residents in the region to new horizons and shared prosperity.  In line with our commitment to bringing energy to life responsibly, Sahara Group is eagerly awaiting the huge volumes of trade, commerce and accompanying sustainable value generation the road will bring to the communities, Edo state, and the nation,” he said. While economic development and prosperity beckons, the promoters of the project need to ensure the sustainability of the road with adequate provision for maintenance that also involves community participation. Quote “We are celebrating the dawn of new opportunities and it is important to also note that the road is not to promote accessibility only, but to join communities together and bring development to them in a sustainable manner”