Sam Ekpe Otughievwen town, the ancestral capital of Ughievwen clan and capital of Ughelli South Local Government Area of Delta State, is bubbling as they celebrate the life and times of Hon. (Chief) Patrick Emurode Sito Ideh, the Okpako-Orere of Otughievwen and Ushota of Ughievwen Kingdom. Chief Ideh died on December 22 last year and was buried on January 1st this year. Today’s celebration of the life of late Pa Ideh by the sons and daughters of Urhobo Kingdom is in form of a Thanksgiving Mass at the Mother of the Redeemer Catholic Church, Effurun. Yesterday, March 4, there a valedictory court session at High Court 1, in Warri, for late Pa Ideh. Already, President Muhammadu Buhari has commiserated with the Ideh family over the passing of Pa Ideh. President Buhari condoled with the Government and people of Delta State, professional and business associates of the departed, urging more trust in God, and appreciation for the long life of the elder statesman and former lawmaker, who served as member of the House of Representatives, 1979-1983. President said on the late father to the Urhobo ethnic nationality: “The legal icon and businessman worked selflessly for the unity and progress of his domain, leaving landmark testimonies of speaking for the voiceless, supporting the underprivileged and, most significantly, ensuring presence of sons and daughters in national discourse.” Buhari prayed for a peaceful rest for the departed, and God’s comfort for his family. The late Pa Ideh was born on November 3rd 1926 at Otughievwen. He was the third of the four sons of his mother, late Mrs. Oshoghanvwen Ideh and the last child of late Chief Ideh Egholor, a very powerful Ughievwen Adeh (Palace Chief) who had several children from many wives. His mother was a fish trader and the daughter of Akpoberhi from Eganre Quarters of Iwrekan. His father died whilst he was still very young and consequently Sito, as he was fondly called spent most of his early life in Iwrekan with his mother but was brought up by his eldest brother, Chief Amrukobire Ideh of blessed memory. Young Emurode Sito Ideh attended Native Authority (N.A.) Primary School, Otughievwen and from Standard IV proceeded to N.A. Central School, Ughelli in 1942 from where he obtained his Middle Certificate in 1943. He thereafter proceeded to Oduduwa College, lIe-lfe for his secondary education. He completed his secondary education at the Urhobo Collegiate School, Warri (now Urhobo College, Effurun) which was then administered by the highly revered and renowned premier educationist in the Delta Region, Late Chief Ejaife. After his secondary school education in December 1948, young Emurode worked briefly as a teacher at Sido Primary School, Warri, where he first met his sweetheart, then Miss Onajite Lady Ekpere, the daughter of a reputed goldsmith from Orhokpor in Ethiope East L.G.A. of Delta State. He later worked as an Accounting Clerk/Draughtsman in the then Warri Township Office and subsequently served there as a Councillor from 1955 – 1956. He also at about the same served as a Councillor at the Central District Council in Ughelli. He was during that period appointed into the board of the Benin/Delta Joint Education Board between 1955 – 1956 from where he later proceeded to the United Kingdom in search of the proverbial ‘Golden Fleece’. In the United Kingdom, he studied Law at the University College, Aberysthwith, the largest College of the famous University of Wales and graduated with Honours in 1960. Thereafter he went for a short programme at Kings College London, and in 1961 was called into the English Bar as a Barrister of Grays Inn. On his return to Nigeria in April 1961, he enrolled as a Solicitor and Advocate of the Supreme Court of Nigeria making him the first Legal Practitioner from Ughievwen Clan and indeed UgheIIi South Local Government Area of Delta State. His contemporaries in the University of Wales included many African Leaders among whom, were the former President of Sierra Leone, Alhaji Tijan Kabah, and Hon Justice P. Nnaemeka Agu (Justice of the Supreme Court) of blessed memory. While at Wales, he was elected Secretary General of the Oversees Students Association. The association had the duty of promoting good relationship and understanding between the oversees students, the host community and the indigenous student population. The subsequent year, he was elected the President General of this August Body and ran the body with distinction. Emurode Ideh’s activism and foray into politics preceded his call to bar. As a young man prior to his sojourn abroad, he joined the Zikist Movement and became a very active member of the National Council of Nigeria Citizens (NCNC). He was in the fore-front in the campaigns for Nigeria’s Independence from Britain under the leadership of Dr. Nnamdi Azikiwe, the great Zik of Africa. Such was his love for his country he named his first son after prominent nationalists from the three major ethnic groups in the Nigeria. A founding member of the Mid-West State Movement, he served as Assistant Secretary and member of the Working Committee, before he proceeded to the United Kingdom to study Law. Upon his return to Nigeria, he became the Assistant Legal Adviser and Member of legal defense team of the Midwest Movement until the region was created in 1963. A man of very strong convictions, principles and unusual courage, his principled stand and beliefs brought him into conflict with the powers that be on several occasions but he remained undaunted. His doggedness and pursuit in the ideals equality, justice and nationhood as espoused by then N.C.N.C led by Dr. Nnamdi Azikiwe, almost cost him his life in the early years of the Nigeria Civil War. After the federal troops over-ran the Midwest Region, he was maliciously branded a rebel by his detractors. He was arrested and taken to the then Midwest Inn, Effurun, where officers of the Nigeria Army used as their base. There to his consternation and utter revulsion, he saw Nigerians of Ibo extraction being escorted away into buses for almost certain execution near the old J. Aliens at Effurun. The soldiers demanded a bribe from him for his freedom but he refused bluntly and was then ordered into the bus but stoutly resisted. Just in the nick of time an old friend, professional colleague and associate, late Webber George Egbe, QC, the erstwhile Attorney General of Midwest drove into the premises and upon citing him, hurriedly met the commanding officer of the forces in Midwest Inn to intervene. He was then brought before the Commanding Officer of the rank of a Major (from Ondo Province) who asked him point blank if he believed in One Nigeria. The summation of Olorogun Ideh’s response was that he and his colleagues in the NCNC fought for one Nigeria along with Zik and others. However, his faith in one Nigeria had been severely damaged by the killings of Ibos in the Northern part of Nigeria and here in Warri, as well as the killings of Hausas in the Eastern part of Nigeria. Consequently, he did not think he could honestly say at that point that he still believed in One Nigeria. An obviously distressed, flustered and concerned Webber Egbe interjected, ostensibly to save his friend from himself saying, “This is the problem with Patrick, he is always blunt to a fault”. To this remark however, the Officer retorted, “No, it is his salvation; it is this character of his that has just saved him. I appreciate his honesty and forthrightness.” He then “decreed” in writing that all federal soldiers should not only leave him alone, but ensure he is protected at all times. This same officer on a brief visit to Warri after his posting out of Warri still enamored by his personality, had Hon. Ideh brought to him in Midwest Inn and in the presence of Chief E. A. Esiso, (now of blessed memory) ordered lunch to be served to him and then drove him to the office of the Officer Commanding the federal troops in Warri, then Major Musa Yar’Adua to be introduced. As it turned out however, they did not meet the Major at his base near the Warri Club. His travails did not, however end there, as he was subsequently arrested and dragged along with the likes of Late Godwin Boyo (One Time National President of the NBA), Late S.I.0. Giwa-Amu (One time Solicitor General of Midwest), Late A.T. Rerri, Late Justice Ohiwere and Justice A.N Maidoh before a Special Tribunal headed by Late Justice Omo-Eboh for rebellion. It is instructive that the “decree”/declaration issued by the aforesaid Major from Ondo province was to be invaluable as same was tendered in evidence in his defence at the hearings. He was eventually discharged and acquitted. While discharging him, he was advised by the presiding judge to be careful and to watch his back. He fought for the creation of Delta State, and his sense of justice and equity led him to offer his legal services in the defense of Chief M.K.O Abiola at Abuja along with Chief G.O.K Ajayi SAN of blessed memory. Indeed, he drafted his son to tag along with him in the process. He was member of Western Region Law Reporting Committee (1962-1963), and Midwest Region Law Reporting Committee (1963-1966), a founding Director of the then government owned Nigeria Security Printing and Minting Company (NSPMC) Lagos (1963-1966). The law was his first love. In his hey days of practice, he handled several highly contentious civil and criminal matters before courts in Warri, Ughelli, Orerokpe, Sapele, Agbor and Benin City. He was capable even in old age of citing pages of legal authorities to support legal positions he took. His several appearances in the Supreme Court especially in the 60’s and 70’s, a rarity then for most lawyers, are reported in the Supreme Court Law Reports. Despite his distinguished legal practice, like his old and now deceased friend Chief J.A, Cole of blessed memory whose repeated appearances at the Supreme Court are well documented, he never applied for elevation to the rank of Senior Advocate of Nigeria. During the second Republic, he was elected into the National Assembly to represent Ughelli Federal Constituency. At various times, he was a member of the Executive Committee of the Social Democratic Party (Delta State), and leader of the defunct Alliance for Democracy (Delta State). Hon. P. E. S. Ideh was a man of unusual candor and simplicity, blessed with an amazing and uncanny capacity to interact with all persons irrespective of their age, status, background or ethnicity. It was not unusual to see people a third his age, sit and engage him in discussions and debates on end as he makes all around him feel at ease, respected and loved. Besides, he would share his last glass of water with anybody in need. A completely detribalized Nigerian, he had warm, long and cherished friendships with renowned Igbo, Yoruba, Ijaw, Itsekiri leaders over the years. On the home front, when late Justice Donald Ikomi, a man he hardly knew, was wrongly accused of murder and ignominiously dismissed on National television by the Federal government, he an Urhobo man singularly convinced the Warri branch of the N.B.A. as a mark of their solidarity, to raise a legal defence team for him. To him this was a set-up and the man had not even been heard. Indeed, he volunteered at his own expense to be at the head of that team from Warri which joined the defense team led by Late Chief F.R.A. Williams SAN in the successful defence of the charge against Ikomi. Some of his bosom friends and associates like Late Chief Festus Okotie-Eboh, Late Hon. Justice Ogbobine; Late Chiefs O. P. Edodo, Late Mr. I. O. Jemide, Late Chief Rewane; Late Chief Utieyone to mention a few, were all of Itsekiri extraction. Therefore, it is not unusual to hear people say he is maternally Itsekiri. A very far-cry from the truth. Indeed, such was the affection and confidence Itsekiri’s had for him that after the celebrations of his 80th birthday in 2006, the cream and leadership of the Itsekiri came to pay him a birthday visit at his home with gifts for him. They included ,Chief O.P Edodo, Chief I.O Jemide, Justice S. Ajuyah, Chief J.O Ayomike all now deceased and a few others. A strict teetotal, early sleeper, early riser and an avid listener of the BBC news until later years, he was a loving husband to his wife whom he married in 1951 and father of so many including his non biological children. Indeed, on several occasions he has travelled with his “adopted” children to stand in as their father in their marriage ceremonies. Unusual for his generation in this part of the country, he has remained married since 1951 to his one and only love -the ever glittering and never fading Olorogun Onajite Lady Anne, (Oniemo Ughievwen) with whom they have eight children (four males, four females). His children and their spouses are Mrs. Mary Blessing Emueriowho Omotejekanron and Engineer Benedict Ologhor (Deceased) Terry Emurode Ideh and Hon. Justice (Mrs.) Blessing Ideh (Deceased) Oghenero Esinune Ideh and Dr. Mrs Obielumani Ideh; Erutefere Donald Ideh; Udumebraye Magdalene Ideh; Aurelia Akpovotor Ideh; Eustace Ushotamwunu Mavuaye Ideh and Mrs. Irene Obukoadeta Bashir. A man of destiny conscious of the fact that obstacles would always be thrown on his path because of his principled stand and strong convictions his sobriquet (odova in Urhobo) was “Okpan” the Calabash. In traditional settings whenever he is hailed by his “Odova as Okpan! his response was “anyien jo whoore”. Meaning Hard as you try to sink the calabash by pressing it into water, it continues to float. Simply put the calabash does not sink no matter the amount of pressure that is applied. An Elder statesman and opinion leader, he was one of the leaders in the Delta Elders Forum a body that canvassed actively for fairness to the people of Delta State and the South South in the allocation of funds from oil receipts by the Federal government and for accountability in Delta State. A highly cerebral and engaging man, It is a measure of the high regard that the Federal government had for him, that even in his old age the Vice President of Nigeria considered it necessary to request him to represent in at in event and to give a keynote speech on his behalf in Asaba as recently as 2018. A man who madly loved his community, he offered legal services free to his Ughievwen people during his early days in legal practice. In a manifest demonstration of his love for his people, he offered his massive country home as Secretariat for the newly established Ughelli South Local Government council in order to ensure a smooth take off of the then fledging local government. They were there until they built their own secretariate several years later. He was not done. Shortly after the return of his country home to him by the Ughelli South Local Government, Olorogun Ideh a man of limited financial resources renovated the premises for his own use. However, prior to his moving in, the newly crowned Okobaro of Ughievwen kingdom (which stool had been vacant for over a decade) was in need of a palace and once again Olorogun Ideh handed his home to the institution for use as his palace for several years before the government built a palace for the Okobaro. In his later years on earth, he reluctantly accepted to be made a Chief and was given the title of Ushota (The Truth) of Ughievwen Kingdom. He became by virtue of his seniority the Village Head (Edion) or Okpako Orere of Otughievwen prior to his demise. It is fitting that papa even at the twilight of his life remained very cerebral and consistent about his progressive views of society and governance. He was until his demise devout member of the Grail Movement. He was survived by his wife Olorogun Mrs. Onajite Lady Anne Ideh (Oniemo of Ughievwen Kingdom). Mrs. Blessing Emueriowho. Olughor Mr. Terry Emurode Nnamdi. Ideh Mr. Oghenero E. Laurence. Ideh & Dr (Mrs) Obielumani Ideh Mr. Erutefere Donald Ideh. Ms. Udumebraye, Magdalene Ideh, Ms. Akpovotor Aurelia Ideh. Mr. Eustace Ushotamwunu ideh. Mrs. Irene Obukoadeta Bashir, Twelve Grand Children among whom are Mr. Roruwe P. Ideh, Mr. Mimuarho Ideh, Mr, Jerhime Ideh, Mr. Oghenejawaire Ideh, Mr. Avwarikoghene Ideh, Mr, Caleb Erhiekieaghogho Bashir, Miss Akpororo Ideh, Mst. Ghieso Ideh, Mst. Onyienwen Ideh, Miss Rukevwe Olughor, Mst. Arhorhire Ideh, Miss Asanemo Judine Ideh and Miss Ogbare Johanna Ideh. He will be sorely missed.Attachments area