 Bennett Oghifo Cavalli Business & Investment Group has awarded a contract for the building of its iconic The Vantage Bourdillon to leading Construction and Civil Engineering firm, Vita Construction. Speaking at the Contract Award and Signing Event at the weekend in Lagos, the Group Managing Director/CEO of Cavalli Business & Investment Group, Mr. Emmanuel Odemayowa, said Vita Construction was selected after a very rigorous and competitive bidding process involving several world-class firms. Mr. Odemayowa added that Vita Construction’s vast experience in the Nigerian Construction industry and their proven expertise with projects of the scale The Vantage Bourdillon entailed were key considerations in the award of the Construction contract to the firm. “Knowing the importance of Bourdillon when it comes to prime real estate in Lagos, we had to come up with something that would wow everyone that beholds it and that informed the idea behind Vantage Bourdillon,” Odemayowa said. He said Piling works and relevant tests on the project site had been completed, adding that the completed Vantage Bourdillon would be a key landmark on the highbrow Bourdillon Road, meeting the lifestyle needs of its highly demanding clientele with the Building’s unique features. The Managing Director/CEO of Vita Construction, Mr. Yiannakis Christodoulou, thanked Cavalli Group for the award of the contract, describing Vantage Bourdillon as a “fantastic architecture” that he was confident would be sold out. He assured the Cavalli Group of his Company’s commitment to delivering of outstanding quality, drawing from their over four decades of experience of handling projects of such sophisticated magnitude, especially in Ikoyi. The Vantage Bourdillon is a luxury Real Estate Development on 12 Suspended floors, comprising 11 Apartment Floors that would accommodate 22 private residences and a recreational floor with State-of-the-Art facilities including a swimming pool, cinema room, gym and spa. The Apartment floors comprise fully serviced three bedroom apartments and five bedroom Penthouse maisonettes with various amenities designed, according to Mr. Odemayowa, to compare favourably with luxury apartments in the advanced economies.