 The Local Organising Committee (LOC) of the Nigerian Healthcare Excellence Award (NHEA) has announced the opening of nominations for NHEA 2022. This was according to the NHEA Project Director, Dr. Wale Alabi in a media release, with the theme, “Innovative Healthcare Service in the Era of Change” as the theme for this year’s NHEA. He said this narrative would help the nation to focus on how innovative healthcare will propel development of new or improved policies, systems, products and technologies; including services and delivery methods that improve people’s health, with special focus on the needs of vulnerable persons. While nomination can be done online or the form can be downloaded, then completed and instructions followed on submission, Alabi called on stakeholders to visit the award website on nigeria health awards to make their nominations. Nomination will close on midnight of Sunday May 22 this year while the event will take place on Friday, June 24 this year at the Convention Centre, Eko Hotel & Suites, Victoria Island, Lagos. NHEA is organised by Global Health Project and Resources (GHPR) in collaboration with Anadach Group, USA, the nominations can be made for corporate or individual categories by any member of the public. The NHEA Director of Marketing, Communication and  Strategy, Moses Braimah, described NHEA 2021 as a great success. “We are expecting about a 35 per cent increase in the nominations for this year’s award following the significant level of Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) in the sector and growing awareness and acceptance of the award by various stakeholders. “Remember also that the award focuses on outstanding performances, creation of new business models, and recognition of those who embrace new trends, market leadership, inspirational performance and many others.”Braimah rated NHEA as the Oscar of Nigeria healthcare awards, adding that in the last eight years the award has grown to become a great source of pride and aspiration for various stakeholders in the sector. About 30 awards and recognitions would be presented at the ceremony. It is made up of five main categories; Special Recognition Awards, Special Awards, Healthcare Delivery Services, Biomedical Technology and Pharmaceuticals. The categories are: The Lifetime Achievements Award, Most Responsive COVID Testing Company of the Year, Most Outstanding Genomic Laboratory of the Year, Most Outstanding COVID-19 Consumables Manufacturer of the Year (indigenous), State with the Highest Percentage of COVID-19 Vaccinated Persons, and PharmAccess SafeCare Outstanding Facility of the Year. Others incude VSR Health Project of the Year, Outstanding Healthcare Financial Institution of the Year, Healthcare Media Excellence Award-Print, Healthcare Media Excellence Award-Online, Biomedical Engineering Service Company of the Year, IVF Service Provider of the Year, Dialysis Service Provider of the Year, Technology-Driven Pharmaceutical Distributor of the Year and more.