ARTS & REVIEW The earthy garden at the Korean Embassy, Abuja saw a convergence of leading and emerging female artists in a show titled ‘The Beauty of Nigeria’ dedicated to the global commemoration of International Women’s Day, says Yinka Olatunbosun The standards for defining beauty have evolved over the course of history. From body types to facial features, the ideals of beauty had travelled through time and temperaments. Women have always been associated with the beauty industry and have excelled in it for centuries. Hence, it was only natural to bring together women in arts to celebrate the beauty of Nigeria on canvas in an exhibition that featured 30 works by 18 female artists. The cross-generational show titled ‘The Beauty of Nigeria’ was sponsored by the embassy of the Republic of Korea in collaboration with Female Artists Association of Nigeria (FEAAN) and Nike Art Gallery. A symbol of the return to normalcy, the show reopens the embassy to the Nigerian public since the onset of the pandemic. Blending Nigerian arts and Korean aesthetics, the exhibition is one in a series of nationwide exhibitions initiated by FEAAN. In his opening remarks, the Ambassador of the Republic of Korea, Kim Young-Chae extolled the beauty of Nigerian arts and culture. “We are now at the end of the long and lonely tunnel of Covid-19 and the rainy season will soon turn nature into full of life and vibrancy. We yearn for the return to normalcy. In this hopeful time of season, I am delighted to see the Korean Embassy host the exhibition under the name of ‘Beauty of Nigeria’ in collaboration with FEAAN. Our host country Nigeria is endowed with talents particularly in the area of soft power such as music, movie, fashion, paintings and traditional arts. The exhibition is to share and appreciate its beauty and talent,’’ he said. Some of the featured artists include the patron of FEAAN and renowned artist, Chief Nike Davies-Okundaye. A native of Kogi, she spent her early childhood in Oshogbo where she received informal training in indigo and adire making by the Oshogbo Art School.  She seeks to re-establish the value of adire as art and to increase the appreciation of this design. Her work is in the permanent collection of the Smithsonian Museum of African Art in Washington D.C. Some of her paintings at the show include ‘Attribute of Affection,’ ‘Ready for Marriage,’ ‘Togetherness and Struggling African woman.’ Another prominent artist at the show is Ngozi Akande, a prolific Nigerian artist known for using her art as an advocacy tool for women rights and empowerment. She is the co-founder and past president of FEEAN who has served as a secretary for SNA in Abuja. With works in UNESCO collections in Paris and New York, she has received several awards for mentoring women and promoting arts. She is the director and head of the department of arts and craft, National Council for Arts and Culture (NCAC). Her work at the show is titled ‘Nostalgia.’ Chinze Ojobo, also featured at the exhibition, is a former student of the renowned Ghanaian artists, El Anatsui. Though a graduate of interior designing in the US with a post graduate diploma in Public Relations and Advertising, she has grown to become a mixed media painter with a knack for vibrant colours and symbolism, Chinze is the 2018 winner of the African Achievers Award for Creative Art at the House of Commons, London. As the current president of FEAAN, she reiterated the association’s commitment to promoting the interests of women in the male-dominated field of arts. “We started in 2001 with just a few artists but now we have over 300 artists. We try as much as possible to do exhibitions to promote the female artists. We do it every March 8 and speak against violence against women. But on October 1, we have a September show that flows into October 1 celebrations. We have done cultural exchange programmes and workshops. The good thing about our exhibitions is that it empowers the female artists to sell their works and get connected with collectors. It also makes them heighten their aspirations and helps their network to be strong,’’ she revealed in a brief interview. FEAAN which turned 20 years in 2021 has had over 30 exhibitions with different themes related to women or social realities. The association has used art collectively to campaign against Gender based violence and rape. For Abigail Nnaji, a BA in Arts holder from the University of Nsukka, fashion has largely influenced her style of artistic expression. She was influenced by her mother’s fashion business as she watched her cut fabrics to precision. She would later experiment with paper cutting technique and paintings to create fashion inspired paintings. Another exhibition artist, Lilian Chizoba Pilaku is a resident artist and curator at the National Gallery of Art, Nigeria. Versatile in painting and video art, she has showcased her works at the Neijing Biennale which is an icing on the cake for the artist who graduated from the Southwest University Chongqing China. Amarachi Odimba a self-taught multimedia artist and a graduate of Geology and mining from Enugu state university, having honed her skills through residencies both local and international is also featured. Her paintings are often abstracted and ambiguous forms that combine colour drips and gestural brush strokes with a spontaneous and expressive approach. Her paintings are informed by personal experiences and allegorical imagery, referencing the complexities of the human condition and the forms of relationships that exist in contemporary society. Her work at the show is titled ‘Inertia.’