Emmanuel Ugwu-Nwogo               in Umuahia As the world continues to wait for curative medicine for COVID-19, HIV/AIDS and other viral diseases, the management of Michael Okpara University of Agriculture, Umudike (MOUAU), Abia State, has restated its commitment to research and innovations that will positively impact humanity. The Vice-chancellor of MOUAU, Prof. Maduebibisi Ofo Iwe, made this known at a news conference to mark his first anniversary in office, saying that the institution was proud of Prof. Maduike Ezeibe for his research in treatment of HIV/AIDS, COVID-19, and other viral diseases. Ezeibe, who is the Dean, College of Veterinary Medicine of MOUAU discovered that the synthetic Medicinal Aluminium Magnesium Silicate (MSAMS) in nano particles has proved an effective remedy for treatment of HIV/AIDS, COVID-19 and even cancer. But five years after what appeared to be a landmark discovery was made public, the relevant federal authorities in Nigeria have been foot dragging in determining the veracity of Prof. Ezeibe’s drug and possibly incorporate it into the nation’s health system. Nonetheless, the MOUAU VC asserted that Ezeibe’s research findings remain relevant and plausible hence the resolve by the management to back him to deepen his research and also to be accorded the needed recognition by relevant authorities.. “Prof. Ezeibe is very very convinced that he has the cure for HIV and COVID-19 and related diseases through the drug he invented,” he said, adding, “The university is solidly behind him. We will go to anywhere with him.” The VC said that Ezeibe was not alone in propagating his findings because “whenever we engage, we try to tell the world that Prof. Ezeibe has something to offer as far as viral diseases are concerned. So, we give him 100 per cent support.” According to him, MOUAU has already been invited to this year’s national science and technological expo (exhibition) because of Ezeibe’s work hence “we are going to support him to be there” at the event slated to hold within the month. The MOUAU chief executive stated that Ezeibe’s research has been bringing honour and glory to MOUAU, citing the award of achievement in excellent performance in Science, Technology and Innovation by the Federal Ministry of Science, Technology and Innovation. He explained that the award was in recognition of the breakthrough of Prof. Ezeibe in his work in finding remedies for viral diseases, including COVID-19. Iwe noted that within the past 12 months since he assumed office he has established “a functional, sustainable, excellence-driven and productive research culture, especially in agriculture, science, biotechnology, engineering and management.” In explaining the principle behind the curative efficacy of MSAMS, the inventor had said that the minuteness of the particle makes it possible for the drug to penetrate “the sanctuary cells” where the virus hides in the body and then flush them out. Not only that, Ezeibe also explained that MSAMS has both positive and negative charges and with electrostatic attraction between opposite charges the drug becomes effective in treating HIV/AIDS and other viral diseases that also have electrical charges.