 Emma Okonji The Courier and Logistics Regulatory Department of the Nigerian Postal Service (NIPOST), in partnership with the Lagos State Ministry of Transportation, has commenced a training programme for all dispatch riders and delivery drivers in the courier and logistics business in the state. The 20 weeks training programme, which was declared open at the weekend by the Postmaster General/CEO of NIPOST, Dr. Ismail Adebayo Adewusi, seeks to instill professionalism among dispatch riders and delivery drivers, and to educate them on the rules and regulations governing courier business in the country. The training, which cuts across all states, commenced with Lagos State at the weekend, recording a large turnout of participants. Adewusi, who was represented at the opening ceremony of the training programme on Friday by the Director, Nigerian Postal Institute, Dr. Julius Anjorin, said NIPOST and the Lagos State government had been in discussion for sometime on how best to train dispatch riders and delivery drivers in the state. The Permanent Secretary, Lagos State Ministry of Transportation, Mr. Kamar Olowoshago, said the training was designed to educate dispatch riders and delivery drivers in the courier and logistics sector. According to Olowoshago, “Overtime, people have taken interest in courier and logistics business and as the number of players increases, we saw the need to train them, because majority of them do not have basic knowledge of the courier and logistics business they are into. Lack of proper education and training have contributed to the reason why most of the dispatch riders contravene the law and also involve in sharp practices that are inimical to the growth of courier business in Nigeria.” General Manager, Courier and Logistics Regulatory Department (CLRD), Mr. Gideon Oludotun Shonde, who expressed his joy that the training programme has commenced in Lagos, said the training would target 6,000 participants from Lagos State. “The partnership between NIPOST and the Lagos State Ministry of Transportation, is to create a synergy that will enhance courier and logistics business in the state. We have noticed reckless ridding and driving on Lagos roads and the reason for that, is because most of the drivers and riders lack proper training. As the regulator of courier and logistics business in Nigeria, we have deemed it fit to collaborate with the Drivers’ Institute of the Lagos State Ministry of Transportation, to properly train courier drivers and riders in Lagos State. We are beginning with Lagos State, with plans to take the training programme to other states of the federation, and the target is to train 6,000 of them from Lagos. The training will expose them to the laws of the federal, state and local governments and make them professionals in courier and logistics business,” Shonde said.