 Segun Awofadeji in Bauchi As the 2023 electioneering approaches in Nigeria, the Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Muhammad Saad Abubakar III, has warned politicians against playing politics of do-or-die. The Nigerian Muslim supreme leader gave the warning while speaking during the closing ceremony of the 36th Qur’anic Recitation Competition at the Abubakar Tafawa Balewa International Stadium in Bauchi at weekend. The Sultan, while appealing to politicians not to take politics as a must-win game, reminded them that it is only God that gives power to whom he wishes and takes it from any person He so wishes at anytime. Abubakar,  who advised politicians to be mindful of how they treat the electorate, said they were voted to serve the masses and not for the masses to serve them. According to him, “By 2023, the politicians will be up in their normal game, but please, play politics with the fear of the Almighty Allah, knowing that He is the only one who gives power to whom He wants at the time, and takes it away from you when He wants. “So, do not make it a do-or-die affair because Allah already knows who is going to be a leader in 2023 whether at state or federal level, but we don’t know because we are mere mortals.” He urged politicians to ensure that they play the game by the rules and be fearful of the day of meeting the Creator. The Sultan equally advised market men and women not to hike the prices of foodstuff and other essential services ahead or during the Ramadan fasting. “As Muslims in Nigeria join their counterparts across the world to observe the mandatory 30 days Ramadan fasting, traders, business owners and other people who render social services should be reminded of the day of judgement when they will give account of every deed. “They should not increase prices of foodstuff and other commodities and services during the holy month,” the Sultan appealed. At the end of the competition, Baba Goni Mukhtar from Borno and Haulatu Amina Ishaq from Zamfara States emerged the overall winners in the male and female category, carting away with N3 million prizes each. The competition, which drew 328 participants across the country, had 168 males and 160 females. THISDAY gathered that the 2022 National Qur’anic Recitation Competition was hosted by the Bauchi State Government in collaboration with Usman Dan Fodio University, Sokoto.