 Hammed Shittu in Ilorin A Former Member of House of Representatives representing Ilorin East and Ilorin South Federal Constituency of Kwara State, Hon. Amuda Kannike, has said that the next elections would prove to be another acceptance of the Saraki dynasty in the political leadership of the state. Kannike, who is now seeking to contest for Kwara Central Senatorial District under the platform of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in 2023, said that the period would also show to the Kwarans that the present government in the state has allegedly failed to meet their yearnings and aspirations since assumption of office on May 29, 2019. Kannike made these remarks in Ilorin yesterday while submitting his letter of intention to contest for the Kwara Central Senatorial District ticket of the PDP. He said that the people of the state have seen the light and would vote for the PDP to restore the political control of the state to the Saraki’s dynasty. He stated that the immediate past administration impacted positively on the people of the state in a manner that the present administration could never surpass. Kannike added that “the people of the state have realised that they made a great mistake during the 2019 general elections by voting in the All Progressives Congress (APC) and they are now ready to use their votes to send the APC out of the governance of the state in the 2023 general elections.” The former lawmaker noted that the forthcoming general elections in the state would be a great testimony that the people of the state still loved the PDP and this will be demonstrated during the poll. Kannike, who was a former commissioner for Works and Transport in the state, said that he would be in the senatorial race in order to leverage on his past exposures as a member of the House of Representatives. He opined that he would be a servant of the people so as to bring much needed dividends of democracy to his constituency. Responding, the Chairman of Kwara Central Senatorial Zone, Mr. Owolabi described the aspirant as a trusted politician that would add values to the senatorial zone and the entire state.