 Oladele Sotubo Investing is a way to secure your plans for financial security now and in the future. There will be times when there is an economic downturn and rising inflation. In periods like this, you might want to make extra income to meet your medium to long-term financial goals. However, the ever-increasing cost of living means that your savings alone is not enough. These days, you need aggressive savings and smart investments to maintain your standard of living. Your financial goal might be to diversify investments, secure a steady income, save for a future need, preserve principal or minimise taxes. Irrespective of what it is, you would need a fixed-income fund to achieve your financial goals. There are several investment options and the first step will be to choose a plan that suits your needs and helps you fulfil your financial goals. Why You Need Fixed-Income Fund Fixed-income funds such as unrestricted low-risk mutual funds would help you preserve capital, secure a steady stream of income, and achieve your medium to long-term financial goals. This investment instrument is a type of mutual fund investment. It is administered by a professional asset manager who pools together funds from you and other investors and invests them in the best investment interest of you and the investors. It preserves your principal investment and provides regular income in the form of fixed interest payments. This is a great investment tool if you’re looking to generate fixed income while still protecting your capital. The best part about investing in a fixed-income fund is the benefits that you get, especially when you have a clear financial vision. Such a vision implies that you receive a steady income while maintaining a low-risk appetite. The fixed-income funds are known to be less susceptible to macroeconomic risks, such as economic downturns or inflations. They also allow you to diversify your portfolios. When you invest in a diversified portfolio of fixed-income securities, you get to secure a more stable source of income than other high-risk-based investments. You would also help lower portfolio volatility over time. Another benefit of the fund is that it allows you to preserve your capital, unlike other investment tools where it’s likely that you lose your capital. If you are looking to preserve your capital, fixed-income securities are a good place to start investing. Investing with the Right Partner The leading asset manager in Nigeria, Stanbic IBTC Asset Management, offers you quality financial advice on profitable investments. Stanbic IBTC Asset Management manages your investment risks by investing across a diverse range of assets thus avoiding concentration of risk. Funds from the stable of Stanbic IBTC Asset Management are managed by a team of expert fund managers with experience in economic volatility and effective risk management who work to get you maximum returns on investment. They manage the portfolio in a way that ensures the funds are adaptable and secured during economic changes. With an investment in Stanbic IBTC fixed-income funds, you can continue to generate revenue despite market volatility or changes in the economic situation. The Stanbic IBTC fixed-income fund is available on the Stanbic IBTC Mobile App and online platforms and you can make investments and manage your funds at your own convenience 24/7. Sotubo is the Chief Executive at Stanbic IBTC Asset Management