 Hammed Shittu in Ilorin Piqued by the alleged non fulfilment of electoral promises to the people of the country, the National Secretary of the Young Progressives Party (YPP), Mr. Vidiyeno Bamaiyi, at the weekend said the leadership of the parry is set to wrest power from the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the country in 2023 so as to provide  effective leadership to all Nigerians. Bamaiyi said already, the party has commenced sensitisation and enlightenment campaigns across the 36 states of the federation and Abuja on the need to change the present narratives of oldies in the political calculations of the country ahead next polls in 2023. He stated this in Ilorin, the Kwara State capital, while speaking with journalists shortly after the supervision of  ward and local  congresses of YPP in the state. The party leader said: “The ruling APC both at the state and federal level has failed in its electoral promises, and the people of the country are now set to vote them out so as to help the people feel the real dividends of democracy at all levels.” Bamaiyi said the party has embarked on ‘ballot revolution’ ahead of the 2023 general election with massive sensitisation of young people to change the narrative. He also explained that the ‘ballot revolution’ is not a bloody one but all about preparing the minds of young people in the country to get into mainstream politics and supporting themselves to take over political leadership at all levels through the ballot box with their voters’ card and determination to change the old guards The national secretary called on the youths to take their destiny in their hands by registering for the permanent voters’ card which he said would afford them the opportunity to participate in the 2023 elections. Bamaiyi advised that young people should not allow themselves to be toyed and deceived by politicians who do not mean well for the country with evidence to show their actions towards young people. He also called on the people of the state and members of the YPP to work together as a team in order to win the next elections in the state. Also speaking at the Adewole ward congress, the leader of the INEC team to monitor the exercise, Assistant Electoral Officer, Alhaji Mohammed Sanni Abubakar, said the exercise was in line with the provision of the Electoral Act.