Some family members of passengers aboard the Kaduna-bound train attacked on Monday say they are yet to know the fate of their relatives. Speaking to a News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) at the Rigasa Railway station in Kaduna on Tuesday, they said they were yet to establish contact, 14 hours after the tragic incident. They therefore appealed to the state government to come to their aid to relieve them of the apprehension they were passing through. Mr Mohammed Barau, a resident of Ungwan Rimi area of Kaduna, said he was at the train station to have an update regarding the incident, adding that his younger brother was in the train attacked. “We called his line several times without response, until later his friend seated with him in the train picked and told us that my brother left his phone on the seat, and that he did not know his whereabouts. “When we later tried to call again, the phone was switched off, and when we called the friend, he was not picking. “By now, the government should have released a comprehensive list of  people killed, those injured, as well as the number of people evacuated. “At least, when this is done, it would give us some peace of mind, but we have not heard anything yet,” he said Also, Miss Lami Gombo, a resident of Kudenden, in Kaduna, said she was yet to hear from her brother, who was on board the train. “His telephone lines are switched off; we have been to the Nigerian Army Reference Hospital, but did not see him there. “The development is worrisomeas; the entire family is confused as to whether our brother is still alive, dead,  or had been kidnaped,” she said. Others who spoke to NAN expressed same feeling, adding that their minds were never at rest as a result of the non-contact with relatives on board the attacked train. A staff of the Nigerian Railway Corporation, who was also in the ill-fated train, told NAN that some of the passengers had fled into the bush for safety when the incident occurred. “Nobody can ascertain whether passengers were kidnaped or not, but the pandemonium must have caused a lot of people to run into the bush to safeguard their lives,” said the staff, who did not want his name mentioned. NAN reports that the Kaduna-bound train, which left Abuja 6pm on Monday, was attacked by suspected terrorists around 7.45 pm, with just 15 minutes drive left for it to arrive Kaduna. Kaduna State Commissioner for Home Affairs and Internal Security, Mr Samuel Aruwan, on Tuesday said the train had been secured by military personnel, and that government had evacuated passenger on board it. He said staff of Kaduna State Emergency Management Agency (KADSEMA) and Nigeria Red Cross, Kaduna chapter, conducted the evacuation. When contacted by NAN for details of the casualty figure, an official  of KADSEMA who did not want his name mentioned, said they were still working on the details. Meanwhile, train service, including other business activities at the Rigasa Railway station, Kaduna, had been grounded as a result of the incident. (NAN)