 Kuni Tyessi in Abuja The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) has disclosed that illegal institutional admissions conducted outside the Central Admissions Processing System (CAPS) between 2017 and 2020 is responsible for the complaints by students over inability to access admission letters for clearance. The admission letters are part of documents needed for their screening and clearance at their respective institutions before the mandatory National Youth Service Scheme (NYSC). In a statement signed by the Boards spokesperson, Dr. Fabian Benjamin, the board said all the affected students should blame their various institutions, adding that advisory on how to obtain retroactive admission is self-explanatory. “This phenomenon is especially true of products of undisclosed illegal institutional admissions conducted outside the Central Admissions Processing System (CAPS) between 2017 and 2020. “The series of complaints emanated from the frustrations of these set of students who are expressing anger at the lack of formal recognition of their degrees by relevant authorities. “Consequently, the Minister of Education, Adamu Adamu, had out of compassion, approved to finally condone these underhand admissions,” he said. He said based on available data, close to one million undisclosed illegal institutional admissions have been disclosed so far. Benjamin said the Board, therefore, used this medium to appeal to institutions to immediately upload appropriately the matriculation numbers, names, disciplines, year of graduation and other necessary details of the candidates for the Board to process the candidates’ ‘condonement’ applications. “What is, however, surprising is that as of today, less than 5 percent of such students’ details had been uploaded on the Board portal by the institutions as required. “It is even more egregious to note that even among the few that had been uploaded by the schools on the Board portal, many of the schools had not correctly keyed in their details. “The Board reiterates that it is incumbent on the institutions to correctly key in the details of the candidates as illustrated on the advisory issued to institutions, advertised in the dailies and on the Board’s website for the prompt processing of candidates retroactive admission letters for them to obtain necessary clearance for their hitherto underhand admissions,” Benjamin said.