 The opening ceremony of the 26th edition of the Nigerian University Games Association (NUGA) hosted on Saturday by the University of Lagos (UNILAG) at the sports complex may well go down as one of the best in the annals of the competition since inception in 1966. No fewer than 75 private and public institutions from across the country took turns to file out in different colourful kits for the mandatory match past which was witnessed by dignitaries. Among the personalities at the occasion were Femi Gbajabiamila, Speaker House of Representatives, Sunday Dare Minister of Sports, Segun Agbaja, CEO, Guaranty Trust Holding Co Plc, Senator Lanre Tejuosho, pro-Chancellor, UNILAG, Pastor Tunde Bakare, and Pastor Ituah Ighodalo. Others include Sola Aiyepeku, Lagos State Sports Commission boss, Dr Emmanuel Ekuwem, Secretary to Akwa Ibom State Governor, Professor Oyelowo Oyewo, Attorney General of Oyo State who represented Governors of Lagos, Oyo and Akwa Ibom states, respectively. A major highlight of the occasion was the lighting of the NUGA Flames by Honourable Femi Gbajabiamila who was flanked by eminent personalities at the occasion. This was preceded by a torch relay by notable athletes and sports personalities such as Olympic Gold Medalists, Chioma Ajunwa and Enefiok Udo-Obong, Olumide Oyedeji, ex-NBA star, Hameed Adio, a UNILAG alumnus and 1980 Olympian among others. Declaring the games open, Prof Stephen Sanaah Hamafyelto, NUGA President while administering the oath used the chance to reiterate commitment to the theme, ‘Fostering Greater Unity and Nation Building Amongst Nigerian Youths Through University Sports’. He revealed, “Our vision is to provide the space for engagements in new conversations for our future leaders to positively reposition themselves for global advantage. Our pride to achieve this is our universities. Which, are the nation’s asset to ensuring national growth and develop through sports, education and culture. These roles can be seen displayed by UNILAG that didn’t just give us what they promised (best City Games), but added greater value by upgrading their sport facilities and social amenities. We hope this competition will give each participant one of the most memorable and rewarding experience of their lifetime.” In his welcome address, Prof Oluwatoyin Oguntoyinbo acknowledged that UNILAG has raised the bar in delivery and execution of NUGA 2022. He said, “We guarantee state-of-the-art sporting facilities and a memorable experience in Nigeria’s University of First Choice and the Nation’s Pride. Please go out and see places and enjoy the fresh and aquatic splendor hospitality of the most friendly and accommodating state in Nigeria.” Minister of Sports, Sunday Dare said, “Apart from the NYSC, the other single largest connection of youths can only be found in our campuses. Also the bundle of talents when it comes to sports can only be found in our campuses. I’m excited that NUGA games is back again after seven years in the doldrums. I hear some participants would be selected to participate at the World University Games in June. For us, we hope that some of the athletes that will represent Nigeria in July at the Commonwealth Games would emerge from NUGA 2022. So, I want to thank UNILAG for giving us back our NUGA. In the last few weeks, I have seen sports and its power. I have seen the marriage of sports and entertainment. I have seen a lot of youths empowered to make money while preparing for the NUGA games. There is no other platform bigger than sports to promote peace and unity. Welcome to NUGA Games 2022.” Speaking at the occasion, Hon Gbajabiamila said, “I’m told that there are 78 to 79 Universities gathered here for NUGA and around 14,000 athletes. Who would have thought? It was the great Nelson Mandela that said that sports has the power to change the world. It has the power to inspire, unite people in a way that nothing else does. And it speaks to youths in the language that only they understand. We are going to be hearing that language of sports in the next seven to eight days where we are going to see talents unbundled. This is going to be a harvesting ground for athletes. “This is what we need in Nigeria today. The unification of colours, ethnicity and religion. In that, our strength will be unleashed to all the nations around the world. I believe that God in His wisdom created Nigeria with so many languages, cultures and religion so that we can all harness our differences and strength, bring them together to make Nigeria a great country.” Curated by Idris Olorunnimbe led full-service creative agency, The Temple Company, NUGA ceremony also featured music performances. The 10-day ceremony features about 17 sporting activities and will continue to run till March 26, 2022. According to the Executive Secretary, Dr Joseph Awoyinfa, competition venues includes UNILAG Indoor Sports Hall, YabaTech, Rowe Park, Yaba and Onikan Stadium.