 By Vanessa Obioha The Ooni of Ife, Enitan Ogunwusi and the House of Oduduwa foundation, is set for the  book launch Of ‘Unspoken: A Chronicle Of Women Kings In Yorubaland (Oba Obinrin)’. Authored by Princess Ronke Ademiluyi, the 123-page book is about women who ruled over Yoruba kingdoms centuries ago. According to the author, who also  published  the book on the legendary Queen Moremi that was adapted into ‘Moremi the Musical’, Oba Obinrin aims to celebrate women in monarchy and public leadership positions. Princess Ademiluyi, an illustrious daughter from the Lafogido royal family in Ile Ife, affirmed that women in many areas of the society were given a certain amount or range of power and authority to carry out certain leadership, “duties in areas such as trading, commerce, spirituality and even in royal affairs as found in women in positions such as Iyalode, Iya Oba, Olori and these women through their actions, counsel, and advice played vital roles in different spheres of the Yoruba scenery.” These roles, she emphasised, show the respect accorded to women in the Yoruba society. “Invariably, there have been some women who have gone above and beyond these stipulated positions to become venerated women in history and have become kings in their respective Kingdoms, female kings and what we call ‘Oba Obinrin’.” Published with bold illustrations depicting events at the time, ‘Oba Obinrin’ is a meticulous excursion into the heroic past, a sweet elixir for the present, and a joyous prediction for the immediate and distant future. In celebration of Women’s month, ‘Oba Obinrin’ will be officially released to the public at a prestigious exhibition and book launch. The event will be held on March 31 at the Apa Suites of the Eko Hotels and Suites, Victoria Island, Lagos. Keynote addresses will be delivered by Erelu Abiola Dosunmu the Erelu Kuti of Lagos and the First Lady of Kwara State, Mrs Olufolake Abdulrazaq. There will be a panel discussion comprising Toyin Saraki, Yemi Candide Johnson (SAN), Dele Adesina (SAN), Muyiwa Ige, Khairat Okunnu-Lamidi, Yemisi Ransome- Kuti and Omolara Wood.The discussion will be moderated by  Balogun Akin Osuntokun.