 Gilbert Ekugbe The International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA) and Tanzania Research Institute (TARI) have unveiled 25 improved cassava varieties to boost cassava production in Africa. Speaking at a day-long National Cassava Business Summit in Dodoma, Tanzania, the IITA Eastern Africa Hub Director, Dr. Leena Tripathi, noted that cassava is at the heart of IITA’s work, noting that the meeting aimed to catalyse Public-Private Partnership (PPP) sector-led investment in the cassava seed value chain, bringing together about 100 participants from government, public and private sectors, Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs), institutions, entrepreneurs, farmers, and other key cassava stakeholders. Tripathi lauded the governments of Tanzania and Nigeria for putting efforts into developing the crop for commercialisation by launching the National Cassava Development Strategy (2020-2030) in 2021 as the crop’s blueprint. She said: “I am glad that Tanzania and Nigeria are comparing notes on how to develop cassava sector.” The representative of the Tanzania Minister of Agriculture, Ms. Anna Mwangamulo, advised scientists to research based on the market needs so that the solutions could cater for the consumers’ needs, while also urging the cassava stakeholders to implement the cassava strategy in their activities for the development of the whole cassava sector. “I appreciate the efforts from IITA and Tanzania Agricultural Research Institute (TARI) in releasing 25 improved cassava varieties,” Mwangamulo said. “If we adopt the BASICS model, we will improve production, increase productivity and enhance livelihood through increased income and employment,” BASICS-II Advocacy, Promotion & Outreach Lead at IITA, Dr. Godwin Atser, asserted. The Chairperson of Tanzania Cassava Producers and Processors Association (TACAPPA), Mwantumu Mahiza, who also spoke at the event, urged financial institutions to create feasible and youth-friendly loan regulations to increase youth participation in the agriculture sector. Cassava stakeholders also shared experiences and showcased their activities across the entire cassava value chain. “When I started working on machine designs for cassava processing, many thought that I was wasting my time, but seeing how cassava has become a focal crop and people want to develop the sector, they have started to understand my perspective.” a Processing Machines Manufacturer at Intermech, Peter Chisawilo, said. A Cassava Seed Entrepreneur, Mama Antonia, who was initially skeptical about the profitability of the cassava seed business, noted that the training she received from the Building Economically Sustainable Cassava Seed Systems in Tanzania (BEST) cassava project helped her to create a successful and sustainable cassava seed production business. The Project Manager for BASICS-II, Lateef Sanni, said the burgeoning private investments in cassava processing across Africa had increased the demand for improved cassava seeds, with growers racing to satisfy industries.