Adedayo Akinwale in Abuja A chairmanship aspirant of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Senator Tanko Al-Makura has rejected President Muhammadu Buhari’s reported endorsement of Senator Abdullahi Adamu for the national chairmanship position of the ruling party. Both Adamu and Al-Makura are former governors of Nasarawa State and incumbent senators.Al-Makura yesterday visited the Chairman of the South-west Governors’ Forum and Ondo State Governor, Mr. Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, to seek support. The former governor and members of his campaign organisation were received by the governor at the Government House, Akure. The former governor said he visited the state to inform Akeredolu of his aspiration because he is the conscience of the APC “due to his sincerity and courage”. “We are here with members of my campaign council to see you as one of the leaders of this country. As one of those who believe in true democracy. As one of those who has championed the inner mind of the people when it comes to justice, fairness and just cause. “We feel you have a role to play in determining and shaping how this party (APC) is put together, especially in this critical time of transition. We must ensure the continuity of the gains we have had from President Muhammadu Buhari. “This is the motivating factor that has made me throw my hat in the ring to consider contesting the office of the National chairman. We must give this party a principle , a good policy and raise the hope of our people. There is something that gives me comfort when I think about APC. It’s a party I am faithful to, to a fault. Never in the history of this country have different parties come together and work together and put harmonious and United focus to drive the process of unity in the country. “President Buhari has held that tenaciously and made that the resolve and the sanctity of his administration. It has added value and we will just sustain it. We are here to solicit your support and cooperation.” Al-Makura submitted.He earlier hailed Akeredolu for changing the face of Ondo State within five years, stressing that the Governor has added values to the sunshine state. Responding, Akeredolu thanked Al-Makura for the visit, while describing him as a competent and committed member of the ruling party.Akeredolu said the APC must establish a core value which the party must be known for, adding that there must be general understanding among leaders and stakeholders of the party. “You have said many things and one thing that came out is APC value. We must be able to establish our value else we are wasting our time. What are our core values? Do we have democratic values?” he queried.