 Greenwood House School, a dynamic nursery, and primary school in Lagos, emerged as the winner of the prestigious and highly coveted Robot Technology Award at the recently concluded Nigeria National Championship 2022 of the First Lego League. The Robotics Championship which featured over 200 schools from the six geo-political zones was held in Abuja and Lagos state respectively. The theme for this year’s Lego league was Cargo Connect and the competition sought to equip children between the ages of nine years and 16 years with Science, Technology, Engineering, Arts, and Mathematics (STEAM) skills using robotics. Commenting on the championship, Dr. Ekua Abudu, Founder of Greenwood House School, said “We are honored to have emerged the winner of the highly coveted robot technology award despite this being our first time participating. An additional achievement for Greenwood House School is the fact that we were the ONLY primary school in the competition as the other teams were from Secondary schools. This is a commendable initiative. With the continuous advancement in technology, we must equip our young students and the Nigerian youth with the requisite knowledge and skills to drive innovations as this will enable them to provide solutions to challenges” She went on to say “The use of robotics aids easy comprehension of STEAM learning for young students because it provokes curiosity making learning easier. This is why we introduced robotics as a mainstream subject and an integral part of the curriculum at Greenwood House School to ensure that each student is allowed to explore and fully harness their skills within their areas of interest.” This award secures Greenwood House School’s position as a foremost citadel of excellence. In August 2021, Greenwood House School She clinched the best result in the Diplome d’ Etudes en Langue Francaise Examination (DELF) PRIM Category in Lagos state. In November 2021, Greenwood House school was the only school to represent Africa at the Commonwealth Secretariat COP26 event. Greenwood House School runs classes from creche through the nursery to primary six and accepts children between the ages of 3 months to 10 years irrespective of their cultural and religious backgrounds.