 Igbawase Ukumba in Lafia Six members of the Oga Royal Family of Obi Chiefdom in Nasarawa State, yesterday dragged the state government to the Nasarawa State High Court for allegedly re-selecting and re-appointing Mr. Aliyu Dangiwa Orume as the Osuko (Paramount ruler) of Obi despite being sacked by an Appeal Court. The Nasarawa State Goverment was reported to have re-appointed Orume barely one week after the Makurdi Division of the Court of Appeal nullified the selection process held in May 2007, which produced Orume as the Osuko of Obi. The plaintiffs have alleged in their writ of summon that the state government had on December 28, 2021, announced the re-selection of Orume as the Osuko of Obi despite a verdict of the Makurdi Division of the Court of Appeal that had nullified his earlier selection. Consequently, the plaintiffs, who included: Dauda Wali, Mr. Orogu Yusuf Abbe, Mr. Mohammed Ogwede Edo, Mr. Egye Mohammed Onyapa, Mr. Ismailia Madaki and Mr. Idasho Umar Agyewa, in a suit No. NSD/LF/20/2022, filed by their counsel, J.E. Agbo, have sued for themselves and other members of the Oga Ruling House, insisting that the re-selection and installation of Aliyu Orume, who is the first defendant in the suit, was illegal. Also joined in the suit were the governor of Nasarawa State; Nasarawa State Commissioners for Justice, Local Government Affairs; Obi Local Government Council and the Obi Traditional Council. In a writ of summons filed before the Chief Judge of Nasarawa State, the plaintiffs were seeking a declaration that the purported re-selection of the 1st defendant as the Osuko, pursuant to the purported Nasarawa State amended Local Government Law 2009, was illegal and contravened the Nasarawa State Legal Notice No.3 of 2006. The plaintiffs also sought for a perpetual injunction restraining the first defendant (Orume) from parading, holding out or presenting himself in any manner, form or way as the Osuko of Obi. Part of the reliefs sought also included an order of the court mandating the defendants to comply with the Nasarawa State Legal Notice No.3 of 2006 and re-conduct the selection exercise for the stool of Osuko of Obi Chiefdom. Hearing into the suit, which would be handled by the Nasarawa State Chief Judge, Justice Aisha Aliyu Bashir, was slated for April 4, 2022.