 The New Nigeria People’s Party (NNPP) has said that about 15 politicians have already declared interest to secure  the presidential ticket of party in the 2023 general election. The disclosure came just as the party said that it will hold national convention in Abuja on 30th March to elect its substantive national officers. Addressing journalists in Abuja yesterday , National Publicity Secretary of NNPP, Gilbert Agbo said “15 people have indicated their intentions to contest for our presidential ticket for the 2023 presidential election, some of them are our members while others are from other political parties. The party’s constitution has windows for adjustment to accommodate such persons,” he said. Agbo said that presently the influx of new members wishing to actualize their political ambition in the NNPP are very high. When asked to mention specific names of those top politicians lobbying for NNPP’s ticket, Agbo said: “As we speak, most of them are purchasing membership forms. However, by the time we have commenced sale of nomination forms for the presidential primaries, the names of these politicians and their numbers will be made public”. The party spokesman said that  NNPP has successfully conducted ward, local government and state congresses across the country. He, however, said that state Congresses in Rivers, Imo, Plateau and FCT were suspended due to minor disagreements. According to him, the party’s Caretaker Committee has invited leaders of the affected states to the National Secretariat for amicable resolution of the issues raised after which the Congresses in these States will be conducted. Regarding the national convention of the party, Agbo said the Zonal Congresses are scheduled to hold on 28th March 2022, across the Federation, adding that efforts at  repositioning the party will be climaxed by the National Convention which will hold in Abuja on 30th March to elect substantive national officers of the party. Agbo also spoke on the growing influence of the party, saying that NNPP has been welcoming numerous Nigerians with shared ideology, progressivism, mission and vision. “Prominent among them are esteemed members of The National Movement (TNM), Kwankwasiyya Political Movement, Market Women Groups in Osun and Gombe States, Youth Groups, defectors from other political parties and the masses who desire a new Nigeria which only the New Nigeria People’s Party government can usher in,” he said. Speaking on the plan of the party for 2023, the National Chairman, Air Vice Marshall (rtd), John Chris Ifemeje said that NNPP is poised to reclaim it’s pride of place in the politics of the country which it’s was known for during it’s days as the Nigeria People’s Party (NPP). Ifemeje lamented the level of degeneration of things in the country since the return of civilian rule in 1999. He particularly lamented the present state of affairs in the country with inflation and high cost of living pushing Nigerians to unbearable limits. Ifemeje said that NNPP is working with other patriots to see how they can salvage the country from precipice. “After over 22 years of constitutional rule, Nigerians desire and deserve a strong, virile, united, progressive, prosperous and equitable democratic society. Previous governments failed to make the Nigerian dream possible. Fellow compatriots are today more impoverished than they were in 1999 as the much-taunted dividends of democracy remain a mirage. “As a mass movement, a third leg in the nation’s political tripod and a leading opposition party in the country, the New Nigeria People’s Party has become the beautiful bride of Nigerian democracy. The ongoing alignment and realignment of political forces are eloquent testimony of the Party’s determination to win future elections in the country and salvage our dear nation from the jaws of political buccaneers masquerading as democrats with the sole intention to loot our common patrimony,” he said.