 Okon Bassey in Uyo The Akwa Ibom State Government has attributed the restiveness being experienced in several communities in the state to hunger and poverty. The State Deputy Governor, Mr. Moses Ekpo, who made the assertion, noted that when the means of their livelihood is disrupted, the people are bound to become traumatised. Ekpo, who is also the chairman of the State Boundary Committee, spoke while receiving a delegation of National Boundary Commission (NBC) officials in his office at Government House, Uyo. He reiterated commitment of the state government to partner with the NBC to enhance the development of border communities in the state. He said that the sensitisation visit has a critical role in resolving cross-border crises and would help to maintain peace especially during this farming season. Ekpo noted that frequent visits and monitoring as well as the provision of shared infrastructure would go a long way in enhancing peace at the borders, particularly in the Abia and Akwa Ibom boundary. According to him, the renewed sensitisation engagement would give room for indepth conversation with the people while reassuring them that the state and federal governments would be encouraged to embark on joint development programs at the borders to provide better living for both sides. The deputy governor stressed that although a lot of work has been done already, more need to be done while assuring that the state government would not waver in bringing sanity to the borders. The Director General of the NBC, Mr. Adamu Adaji, had said the essence of the visit was to sensitise, enlighten and mobilise border communities in Akwa Ibom State along the Abia/Akwa Ibom interstate boundary. Adaji said the commission decided to flag off the maiden edition of the inter-state promotion of trans-border co- operation amongst communities of states, from Akwa Ibom in view of the fact that Akwa Ibom has remained a worthy and credible partner in the promotion of boundary conflict management in Nigeria. “We want to deviate a little bit from the emphasis of trying to get the boundary demarcated, let’s see how we can bring the communities together, promote integration and jointly utilise resources along the boundary corridor and also see how the state, local and federal governments can graciously promote this integration by providing them the necessary infrastructural needs which will help to enhance co-operation between these communities,” he said. He further added that once they see themselves as one, and that bond is re-established, then, issues of where the boundary lied would be insignificant. Adaji commended the effort of the Akwa Ibom State Government for the cordial and peaceful co-existence with its neighbors, adding that the commission was encouraged and will do all it takes to ensure that people in the affected communities co-exist peacefully for progress. “Progress is what we intend to promote and encourage by trying to provide facilities that could be of common use and benefit to the people,” he said. The NBC’s team took the sensitisation tour to Obot Akara, Ini, Ibiono Ibom and Ika Local Government Areas in the course of the visit.