 Ben Benson-Okoli On March 23, 1775, Americans heard one of the greatest speeches that changed the course of their lives. It came from Patrick Henry at the Second Virginia Convention, held at St. John’s Church, Richmond. While compatriots were debating whether to confront Britain head-on in the quest for independence or continue the policy of appeasement, the path, which previous leaders had toed, Henry, a lawyer and a great orator stood up to give the famous speech – Give Me Liberty or Give Me Death. The address, which stood him out as one of the greatest advocates of freedom and liberty, convinced the delegates to equip the Virginia militia in the war for the Independence, had ended with the famed declaration: I know not what course others may take, but as for me, give me liberty or give me death. So powerful was it that one of those who stood by the window to listen, made a death wish that he be buried, at the exact spot, where he stood to listen, a wish, which came to pass when he died, several years after. When Chukwuma Charles Soludo, gave that famous speech to the 80-member Oby Ezekwesili-led transition committee, it evoked similar sentiments in those who have heard it, because, as it was, hundreds of years ago, this too was a battle-cry for freedom – perhaps, not one of call to arms, but a call for war all the same – social, political, economic war. The battle ground this time is not America, but Anambra State. The enemy, is not Britain, but vested interests and other forces that have stunted growth and development. Because it is said that what is pleasant to the nose, is usually pleasant to the mouth, the opportunity to change the course of history is here once again. Because these times are different, it may not be possible to ascertain whether people made wishes, as most people access information from the comfort of their bedrooms, but certainly, the feeling is same. For me, the catchphrase in that outing was when Soludo declared –  Ife ga-eme n’Anambra! They were the exact words with which he concluded his address to that team of eggheads. Of course, like in the proverbial description of the elephant by the blind, different people have continued to interpret that outing, last month from different angles. At least, I know that here in South Africa, it has remained more than a political speech to an article of faith. For me, those words remain core – Ife ga-eme n’Anambra! You need to be Igbo to understand the full import. Literally, it means, something will happen in Anambra. But even in English, the implication is not totally lost. The passion, the depth behind them and the way he shook his head, underscore the full import of those words. Coming from Anambra myself, I was literally transfixed watching that tape and assessing the implication. It was obvious that the former Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), was not a happy at that moment. He was not happy, not because he has not done well for himself. That fact is settled. But how could anyone be happy with the state of affairs of a people getting so little even when surrounded with such stupendous potentials and opportunities in human and natural resources. As one who was physically present at virtually all the campaigns, not only did I listen, I read the lines on his face. I observed the passion of his delivery of every word about what would be coming as he spoke to the people. But, somehow, I continued to believe that somewhere, somehow, there would be politics of it. But, recent events have removed every vestige of doubt. After all, did he need to say those things? Did he need to deviate from the known conventions or the ubiquitous political tradition? Who would challenge him if he followed the same route or toed the same line? Nobody! He could as well have continued with the sharing of the commonwealth of the state to vested interests and maintaining the aura of government. That would have guaranteed his easy sail in office for the next eight years, and ensured his next stage, perhaps in the Senate, which has become the dumping ground for ex-governors in Nigeria. So, that he tells you that he is going to drive only Innoson vehicles as his official car in government, is not because there is no precedent or he is not entitled to the latest Sport Utility Vehicles (SUVs) that roll out of the factories in Japan or Europe. The heavens will not fall if he devotes billions of Anambra money to acquire scores of them for himself, his family and cronies. It is the tradition. In fact, there is no telling that Soludo must have acquired some of those exotic cars in the past, either as a private person or as the CBN boss. He has the resources. If he is seen in any of them, it wouldn’t be foolhardy. Come to think of it, haven’t you heard that some of his colleagues have even gone ahead to acquire jets, whole planes, for the same purpose? You probably have heard the din about how one of such planes owned by a state government is missing, assuming you’re looking for evidence. Again, when he tells you that he would settle for Akwete cloths, don’t think that he doesn’t have access to the best designers in the world to inundate him with their latest suits or that he lacks the physic to wear them. No it’s deliberate. I just read a piece credited to his long time spokesman, Joe Anatune that henceforth, the official drinks at government house and government functions, would be palm wine and local brews. What that radical departure from the tradition means is that Soludo has the solution to a disease that has been ailing his people and to prove that the medicine which cured the disease in other places does not kill, he is tasting it himself first. He is doing so in the presence of the people, so that when he starts administering it to others, they will know he is not trying to feed them poison. Would there be a domino effect? Expectedly, yes! Firstly, I don’t see anyone within government circles deviating from that example. By the time government functionaries began to copy the governor in buying local products, it would probably become as fashionable as playing Nigerian music. Times were when playing Nigerian music was considered an anathema and a mark of bush behaviour. But today, it’s touche to do so. Nigerian music is now making waves internationally. It took the efforts of some pioneers to change the thinking. The same could be done with foreign products. So, by this example alone, it is expected that in time, more people outside government would begin to buy Innoson. Perhaps, one other state might copy the idea, then more and some more. The projection is that it could become so widespread that in time it would become unwise for any state to look outside, including the Federal Government. Such massive patronage, would mean the the local manufacturer would have enough pool of funds to go into more research and development, employ more expert hands to continue to improve on the products. Because it is purely private, more investors with deep pockets would establish their own plants and induce competition that would in turn improve the quality of the vehicles. In time, Nigeria would start to export vehicles to its neighbours and perhaps, the world market too. Who says it is not possible? Now, imagine the amount of foreign exchange that could be saved when Anambra alone ensures that its 30 members drive Innoson. Imagine the 360 members of the House of Representatives and 109 Senators, the Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs), including the Presidency. Just imagine! Who says that by the time Nigeria begins to manifest the real threat of pulling out of the foreign car market, those international brands which have remained recalcitrant, would not be running to the country to establish their assembly plants in order not to lose out completely? Of course, it may not be that simple, but what if it could be done? After all, we all still remember the quality of Naira to the Dollar at the time Nigeria was still running their own vehicle assemblies. Consider the effect then when all of them were government owned to now they would be completely in private hands. That’s what India did with Tata and that’s what China did and is still doing with brands like BYD, SAIC, NIO, Geely, among others. So, it is not rocket science. All it requires is for someone with the conviction, passion and tenacity to drive the project. That is what Soludo is coming with. Recently, the government, in its usual brainwave, banned Nollywood actors from portraying ritual scenes in their movies. Laughable as it appears, that’s what they are offering as solution to ritual murders in Nigeria. With the penchant to look outside rather than acknowledging that what is eating the plant lives inside it, they think outright ban is the solution. The same government doesn’t think that its official could become the practical model for the youths by toning down their tastes for outlandish opulence. If only in place of foreign limousines and SUVs, they could patronise local products, couldn’t they have stopped these young men and women quicker? Surely, engaging in such eerie acts of using faeces as butter for eating bread, munching dead animals or outright killing of their mothers to make money, could disapper faster than mere banning of movies. So, for Soludo, the countdown has since begun. Months have become weeks and soon it will be days. Then, Ndi Anambra will wake up to a new dawn that will signify the new era. For me, the only meaning that I could give to those eternal words – ife ga-eme N’Anambra, is – revolution. Let it come. We can’t wait. • Okoli, journalist, lawyer, wrote from Johannesburg, South Africa