 Going by his track record, Nseobong Okon-Ekong writes that Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq of Kwara State will make a good job of his latest assignment as head of the All Progressives Congress’ Zoning Committee One of the knotty issues that may remain contentious no matter in whose favour it is resolved is how the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) will zone its offices at the party’s national convention coming up on Saturday, March 26. For a long time, zoning of political offices has become acceptable to address the touchy topic of satisfying every segment of Nigeria’s pluralistic society. Although, it is not in the constitution, it is the soothing balm that heals bruised personal and communal psyche, while providing hope that equity will prevail in filling of national, regional and state offices. For this reason, more than a passing interest will paid to the APC Zoning Committee headed by Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq of Kwara State. Every section of the country is making a bold claim to one office or the other at the APC national convention. The North-central began the agitation for the party’s national chairmanship. That section of the country, which is also known as the Middle-belt believes the presidential ticket of the party should come to it. This notion is championed by Mr. Gbenga Olawepo-Hashim, a chieftain of the APC, who has made the Federal Capital Territory his home. In recent times, Mr. Moses Ayom, a successful businessman from Benue State, has emerged as a strong voice contending for all the rights and privileges that should accrue to the Middle-belt. Both Olawepo-Hashim and Ayom want the presidential ticket of the APC. However, they are not the only ones in contention; Governor Yahaya Bello is also making a strong bid for the prized slot on the platform of the APC. Before going for its presidential primaries, the APC is faced with the challenge of constituting its national leadership. Again, the Middle-belt has thrown in some of its best in the bid to head the party’s national secretariat. There are Saliu Mustapha from Kwara State and Senator Sani Musa from Niger State. Nasarawa State has two contenders in the race for national chairmanship of the APC. Incidentally, both of them are former governors of the state and serving  senators; Tanko Al-Makura and Abdullahi Adamu. There is former governor of Benue State and Minister of Special Duties, Senator George Akume. Incidentally, Abdulrazaq governs a state in the North-central of Nigeria. If this was a consideration for his choice to head a committee that will give the APC an acceptable zoning formula, it is not clear. What is not in doubt, however, is that the choices before the committee are not easy. But they will have to take a decision, have cogent reasons for their choices and be ready to defend them. While the arrowhead of the national secretariat and the one who calls the shots is undoubtedly the national chairman, every office in the party’s National Executive Committee (NEC) is strategic and will be keenly contested. Will the South-west take the APC’s presidential slot? Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu and Vice President Yemi Osinbajo are leading the struggle. The South-south is not taking no for answer as the likes of Transportation Minister, Rotimi Amaechi, Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, Godwin Emefiele and the Minster of Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Godswill Akpabio are warming up for the APC presidential race. A lot of sympathizers are drawn to the persuasive arguments  by South-easterners that one of their own, not any other region in Nigeria, should serve as Nigerian president in 2023. The South-east APC presidential campaign is championed by Governor David Umahi of Ebonyi State, Senator Orji Uzor Kalu and Senator Rochas Okorocha. Working with Abdulrazaq in the APC Zoning Committee are Deputy President of the Senate, Ovie Omo-Agege, who will serve as deputy chairman. Professor Etim Nyong, Dr. M.B Shehu, Mustapha Salihu, Senator Teslim Folarin, and Mr. Sadeeq Sule-Iko Sami. The former Deputy Governor of Anambra State, Mr. Nkem Okeke, would serve as Secretary. While the APC has been careful in selecting members of the committee from every region of the country, the integrity of the Chairman, Governor Abdulrazaq is not in doubt. Over time, he has demonstrated that he is the champion of equity, justice and inclusion in Nigerian politics, having successfully ensured a place of honour for women and youths in Kwara State and guaranteeing that every segment of that state is represented in his team; while infrastructure and other index of development are evenly spread throughout the state. Therefore, President Muhammadu Buhari and the leadership of the APC must have weighed many options before handing over this all-important and sensitive task to Abdulrazaq. It was in the direction of the Kwara Governor that the party looked when it sought to solve the tricky problem of disagreement among the members of the APC in Osun State. Abdulrazaq chaired the committee that conducted the Osun State Governorship Primary, at the end of which he assured the leadership of the APC that the party stands a good chance of emerging victorious in the July 16 governorship election in the state.