 Ismail Adebayo in Birnin Kebbi Concern Citizens in Kebbi State have called on the federal government to urgently deploy more military personnel to Zuru axis of Kebbi South in order to tackle the worsening banditry situation in the area. A statement signed by the Chairman of the Concerned Citizens, Mr. Kabiru Giant, who was a former APC Youth Leader in Kebbi State, said that the incessant bandits’ attacks, gruesome killing of innocent people and rustling of livestock in the communities were worrisome. Giant recalled that in March alone, bandits had carried out three separate attacks in parts of Kebbi-south leaving hundreds of people and security personnel dead. He said: “We called on the federal government to increase its effort, join hands with Kebbi State Government to tackle the persistent cases of bandits’ attacks in Zuru Emirate where they often kill people.” The chairman of the group lamented that the bandits in Kanya area of Danko Wasagu recently killed many soldiers and vigilante members that were shielding the communities from attacks. “This is shocking and unacceptable. It shows the urgency the security situation in Kebbi-south deserves. The federal government should deploy more security agents to the areas and equipped them with more arms to curb the problem of banditry in Kebbi and other states in the north-west zone through which borders the bandits have been infiltrating Kebbi State,” the chairman said. The chairman said the attacks have left many communities completely destroyed and many people are suffering because they have been displaced. “We know both state and federal governments are putting in efforts to reduce the suffering of the affected people but we want them to do more,” he said. Giant commended the Governor of Kebbi State, Mr. Abubakar Atiku Bagudu, for his quick intervention in supporting the families of those killed during the bandits attacks. “However, these attacks must be curtailed. Last week it was Zuru, this week it was Ngaski where four police men attached to a tomatoes paste company were killed. The attacks are affecting the state economy,” he said. He appealed to youth in the state to support the government in its efforts to free the state of insecurity caused by banditry attacks.