 ·                Plans to unveils N300m loan scheme next month ·                Empowers 600 indigent students, 1,000 MSMEs Gboyega Akinsanmi The Chairman, Senate Committee on Industries, Senator Tokunbo Abiru yesterday said he had sponsored 12 bills and four motions within 14 months he had been representing Lagos East in the Senate. Abiru, a former Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Polaris Bank Limited, disclosed that he had facilitated a N300 million constituency intervention revolving loan scheme, which would be unveiled next month. He made this disclosure at a session with journalists in Lagos yesterday, pointing out diverse interventions he had been promoting since December 15, 2020 he assumed office to provide effective representation in Lagos East. Resigned from Polaris Bank on August 31, 2020, Abiru won the senatorial contest on the platform of All Progressives Congress (APC) on December 6, 2020 and was sworn in as the Senator of the Federal Republic of Nigeria on December 15, 2020. At the session yesterday, Abiru observed that he assumed office at a critical period in the history of Nigeria, a time the country was slowly coming out of recession, which was also worsened by the COVID-19. Despite these challenges, he added that he had sponsored many bills and motions covering different sectors such as banking and financial services, the economy, copyright, health, infrastructure and the provision of the legal framework for the reduction of the cost of governance. Under 14 months in the saddle, according to the lawmaker, I have sponsored 12 bills currently at different stages before the Senate and four motions. He listed the bills to include Copyright Act Repeal and Re-enactment Bill, 2021; Dishonoured Cheques Act Cap D11 LFN 2004 (Amendment) Bill, 2021; Federal High Court Act (Amendment) Bill, 2021; Federal Polytechnic Epe (Establishment) Bill, 2021 and Utilities Charges Commission Act (Repeal) Bill, 2021. Other bills, Abiru said, the Control of Delegated Legislation (Control and Procedure) Bill, 2021; National Boundary Commission Act (Amendment) Bill, 2021; National Economic Intelligence Committee (Establishment) Act (Repeal) Bill, 2021; National Economic Reconstruction Fund Act (Repeal) Bill, 2021; National Productivity Centre Act (Repeal) Bill, 2021; National Metallurgical Development Centre Act (Repeal) Bill, 2021 and Energy Commission of Nigeria Act (Repeal) Bill, 2021. He said all the bills “have been read the first time on the floor of the Senate while the Copyright Act (Repeal and Re-enactment) Bill has been read the second time with the public hearing concluded and now awaiting presentation of the report on the bill by the committee.” He, also, disclosed that he had sponsored motions on the ban of crypto-currency in Nigeria; the rehabilitation of the Ikorodu-Shagamu and Ikorodu-Itokin-Epe roads and on the need to position Nigeria and Nigerian businesses for continental growth through the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA). Apart from sponsoring bills and motions, Abiru disclosed that he announced a N100 million Constituency Intervention Revolving Loan, which he said, would attract a very low concessional 6 percent interest rate per annum. He added that the Bank of Industry (BOI) and Lagos State Employment Trust Fund (LSETF) had each pledged to add N100 million, bringing the intervention funds to N300 million. The lawmaker said the N300 million constituency intervention revolving loan scheme would be unveiled next month for the benefit of micro, small, and medium enterprises (MSMEs), artisans and tradesmen in Lagos East. Under the TACT Foundation, Abiru disclosed that he had supported 600 indigent students and empowered 1000 MSMEs across the senatorial district In Epe, he said a 960-spectator capacity mini stadium was also facilitated for the benefit of people, especially the youth. According to him, the two-pavilion sport facility is equipped with Basketball and Volleyball courts, and is almost ready for commissioning. In Ibeju-Lekki, he said two blocks of 6 classrooms have been completed at RCM Primary School Iwerekun, Ibeju-Lekki. In Agboyi-Ketu LCDA, 1 block of 3 classrooms have also been delivered at Ajelogo Primary School. In Ikorodu Central, he said he facilitated four blocks of 24 classrooms equipped with complements of furniture and 16 toilets and solar-powered borehole. The infrastructure has greatly improved learning outcomes in the school.