 Segun Awofadeji The Director General of Abubakar Bukola Saraki for President Advocacy Team, Professor Iyorwuese Hagher, has described the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari as a government of deceit that has inflicted hardship on the people of the country for seven years. He also lambasted the All Progressive Congress (APC) for plunging   Nigeria into serious and immeasurable problems in the last seven years, stressing that “this party, APC has ruined Nigeria”. Professor  Hagher ,who was addressing journalists in Bauchi shortly after meeting with leadership of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in State  yesterday declared that Nigeria doesn’t want a nepotic President in 2023. He said: “We don’t want a nepotic President, we want a broad-minded Nigeria President, a person who will unite Nigeria, who will wipe away our tears, who will make Nigeria a great country again. This is our vision and that was what brought us to Bauchi. For seven years now, the APC has been playing the blame game, blaming the PDP for its inability to deliver, failure to fulfill all the campaign promises to Nigerians. Denying that it promised to fix Nigeria within the first 100 days in office,” he said. “In 2015 when the APC won the presidential election, they were not prepared for it. As soon as they won, they started deny that they didn’t say this and that, the President did not promise to do 100 things in 100 days. At the end, they denied everything” “For the past seven seven years, we have been living in a government of total deceit. APC has ruined Nigeria, nobody is happy today and worst thing about the matter is that when the citizens are not happy and they want to complain, the APC government will turn around to blame them and make them the victims to become the ones to be blamed for everything” “Seven years now down the line, they are still busy blaming the PDP and yet, they can never equal what the PDP has done in the country for the good of Nigerians. Today, Nigeria is in the doctrine of necessity, it is that doctrine of necessity moments that made Nigerians in 1999 to state that they were ready to go anywhere to get a presidential candidate who was going to unite the country, that was why the PDP went to the prison and brought out President Olusegun Obasanjo.” According to him, they were in  Bauchi state to meet with  their  party, to address the national delegates who have worked very hard. “You recall that Bauchi was an APC state since 2015 before people read the handwriting on the wall to understand that it had been a government of deceit and that is the reason, Bauchi State is now back to the PDP” “We are here to tell the people that PDP should get ready to take over Nigeria in 2023. We are a highly organized political party, there is no any other party that is so organized in this country than the PDP. Therefore, we want to tell our people to get ready to take over the leadership of the country in 2023. We do not want a repeat of what happened of 2019 when the APC won,”  Hagher said He said that it is that same doctrine of necessity the PDP pulled President Jonathan and handed over the reign of leadership to him after President Yar’adua died of sickness, pointing out that that doctrine of necessity has become very important because never ever has this country been this chaotic. “Nigeria is in chaos, the PDP that is to take over cannot take over in confusion, the PDP is reading the mood of the nation and the mood of the nation is that Nigerians do not want a Southern or Northern President, Nigerians want a competent President, somebody who will unite us, somebody who will improve the economy, somebody who will protect us from being killed in our homes and we cannot sleep, somebody who will protect our universities, somebody who will give us fuel, diesel, gas, constant electricity supply. That is who Nigerians are looking for. “Nigeria is not looking for a  Southern or Zonal President, we are looking for a very competent person. That is why we came here to give to the people of Bauchi State, the delegates particularly, to give the credentials of our Principal, the former Senate President, Dr Bukola Saraki, who is eminently qualified Nigerian by all standard, not looking about where he comes from, not looking at his religion, not bothering about who and who are his brothers, where his wife comes from.” Meanwhile,Hagher faulted the call for a power shift arrangement where Nigeria’s President is expected to emerge from either South or North. He said, what Nigeria needs now is not a President from Southern or Northern part of the country, but a highly educated and young Nigerian who will identify with every single part of the country. He said they intend to tour all States of the country before their principal, former Senate President, Bukola Saraki, comes up to declare his intension to contest for President of Nigeria. According to him, Saraki is the only Nigerian among all the Presidential contestants that best qualifies to rule Nigeria and take it out of the mess the APC Government has created. He said: “That Nigerian who is young, experienced, has a large heart, has empathy, has a vision and mission to make Nigeria a great country, is Dr. Bukola Saraki”. “We’re rallying round him, hoping that the PDP will make the right choice since he is experienced in economy and a consummate politician. “This is the reason for our consultation with stakeholders, delegates to come up with consensus in choosing a great Nigerian President”, he stressed. He said: Nigerians have already experienced so much pain in the hands of the APC Government who made fake promises to Nigerians and that the people have the duty to vote them out in 2023.