TIPS OF THE WEEK  Bennett  Oghifo Your vehicle’s suspension system plays a very important role. However, it’s one of those things that many drivers don’t really think about until it becomes a problem. Your suspension provides you with better handling and safety when driving. It also protects other important automotive systems and components like brakes, wheels, tires, axles, differentials and more. All of these parts are interconnected. A problem with one can snowball into serious issues throughout the car. Taking proper care of your suspension system and its vital components will help ensure the best possible handling performance for your vehicle. It will also extend the lifespan of your suspension and other affected equipment. 1. Check Your Wheel Alignment Having proper wheel alignment is crucial to your vehicle’s handling while also protecting your suspension, brakes, wheels, tires, etc. Get your wheel alignment checked regularly and get your wheels realigned as needed. 2. Maintain Proper Tire Pressure Tires that are a little underinflated or overinflated may seem like no big deal. However, it’s always a good idea to maintain the recommended tire pressure across all four tires. Your suspension shocks/struts/springs will benefit from proper air pressure in your tires. 3. Check Your Tire Treads Your tire treads can actually tell you a lot about the health of your vehicle’s drivetrain system and other important issues like brake, wheel alignment and suspension system health. If the tire treads are getting too low or they are wearing out very unevenly, you’ll want to address the problem(s). You may be due for new tires and/or a wheel realignment, or you may have some suspension or brake system damage to resolve. 4. Check the Power Steering Fluid and Belt If your vehicle has a hydraulic power steering system, the power steering fluid and belt should be checked regularly by a professional mechanic. The fluid may need to be topped off or replaced, or the belt might need tightening. A healthy power steering system will help extend the lifespan of your suspension system and its sensitive components. 5. Suspension System Inspection Whether you are noticing some handling issues (bumpy ride, loose cornering, pulling to one side, etc.) or you haven’t had your suspension system looked at in awhile, you should have your suspension inspected by an auto repair specialist. A professional automotive technician can look over all the components and recommend the necessary repairs or adjustments to keep everything working right. If you have been in any sort of accident, it should always be a top priority to get your suspension checked for damage. Source: Fox Run