 Udora Orizu As 2023 general elections is gathering momentum, the Clerk to the National Assembly, Mr. Amos Olatunde Ojo, has urged Nigerian youths not to allow themselves to be used as cannon folder for unscrupulous politicians. Ojo who spoke during the commemoration of Commonwealth Day in Abuja yesterday, lamented that Nigeria is fast losing her youth to obsession with wealth and fortune which has plunged them into diabolical rituals. While urging parents, religious leaders, schools and the mass media to go back to the basics and courageously identify where the country missed its way into the jungle of barbarism that now violently threatens the future of the youths, he warned that if the menace is not curbed immediately, the next generation of Nigerians would be doomed. He said: “May l ask the question: what type of future are our youths looking at when teenagers and under aged children are incredibly involved in money rituals? What kind of future is waiting for our youths when the craze for sudden wealth has even overtaken morality and godliness? “What future awaits a generation when its youth spends long hours chatting on social media sites yet the long hours wasted online can be channeled to productive activities that can enable one to acquire quality education.? For instance, through online tutorials and make good use of online research materials. “It is hoped that at the end of today, many of you will come together under social platforms to promote and advocate for gender balance, creating awareness on climate change and inclusiveness. “Nigerian education curriculum also should be reviewed so that it can include social media studies in its disciplines so as to guide students and warn them about the dangers of social media usage. “Lastly, the journey to the 2023 general elections is gathering momentum; our youths must not allow themselves to be used as cannon folders for unscrupulous politicians. “As I conclude my view here today I passionately urge us all to go back to our old ways of doing things; our youths must be counseled on how to fear God and love humanity.” Earlier in his remarks, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, urged youths to use the various social media platforms to learn and improve themselves in order to be responsible citizens that would contribute to nation building. Gbajabiamila, who was represented by the Chairman House Committee on Foreign Affairs, Hon. Buba Yakub, encouraged them to use their creative energy to positively impact the environment. “The future belongs to artificial intelligence and you must fully equip yourselves with relevant skills in addition to your regular studies. As future leaders, the future begins now and you must avail yourselves of these rare opportunities to play responsible roles in your immediate environment,” he added.