 An assemblage of outstanding and forward-looking women of the All Progressives Congress (APC) from the South-east under the aegis of Hope 4 Women Development Initiative (H4WDI) in Abuja yesterday sought to build a strong women network that promotes inclusiveness of women in politics for higher leadership positions in the region. The leader of the group and  a Federal Commissioner at the Federal Character Commission (FCC), Hon Ginika Tor, stated that the group is designed to create a  consciousness and hope for women and to assure them that their tomorrow would be better and assured. She added that their mission is to be a support system for women in politics and to empower and support women with skills, knowledge and resources in order to improve their livelihoods to enable them effectively challenge for Leadership positions in their spheres of human endeavors. The group also is designed to mentor and coach young female politicians to aspire, emerge and win elections and to support APC south East leaders, governors and their wives in advisory capacities. According to her, members of the group stand to benefits great networking with influential personalities, unlimited support for aspiring women in politics businesses and other professions. Notable leaders of the group with advisory capacities also include the Deputy Chief Whip of the Federal House of Representatives, Hon Nkeiruka Onyejeocha, Minister of State for Environment, Hon Sharon Ikeazor, Hon Miriam Onuoha, who is also a member of the House of Representatives. Other executive members are; Lady Nkechinyere Ugwu who is a serving commissioner in Imo state, Hon Uju Onwudiwe, a House of Assembly member in Imo State, Dr Love Ineh, Hon Julie Egbo, Lady Adaora Iwuayannwu, Mrs Ifeoma Nwachukwu, Hon Ify Ugo Okoye, Hon Stella Onuh, Erika Anusie, Dr Cynthia Agbo, Princess Ivor Ajanwachukwu, Hon Emmanuella Anikwe, Hon Akuabata Nwankwo, Him Ify Igwilo, Dr Valerie Obie-Otti, Hon Miriam Kanu among others. Woman Stripped, Tortured after Husband Died During Sex David-Chyddy Eleke in Awka A lady has been stripped, tortured and accused of killing her husband with ‘overdose sex,’ after the man collapsed and died while making love. The incident, which happened in Aguleri community in Anambra State on Saturday, was also videotaped, showing the woman being paraded naked for allegedly killing her husband. Though the identity of the woman was not revealed, a trending video showed her husband lying lifeless, while the lady was stripped naked and all manner of abuses were rained on her. The members of the community said she killed her husband with “overdose” of sex and accused her of so many unprintable things. Meanwhile, the Anambra State Police Command has confirmed the incident, saying that the lady was later rescued from the mob, while one suspect has been arrested in relation to the inhuman treatment netted on the lady. Police Spokesperson in Anambra State, DSP. Toochukwu Ikenga, who revealed this to THISDAY said the command was still studying the video with the aim of identifying more suspects and bringing them to book. He said: “The Anambra State Police operatives have rescued a female victim from an angry mob in Aguleri. “The rescue was as a result of a report from a trending video where a lady was publicly molested and assaulted on an alleged incident of causing the death of her late husband. “The Commissioner of Police, CP. Echeng Echeng, while describing the act as barbaric, stated that one suspect is already in custody and ordered immediate study of the video with the aim to identify the suspects, arrest and bring them to book. “Further information reveals that the deceased had already been buried before the video started trending. The victim was rescued and she is currently receiving medical care in the hospital.”