Deji Elumoye The Federal Executive Council (FEC) rose from its weekly meeting yesterday, with the approval for procurement of security screening equipment and ground lighting materials worth N3.523 billion for Abuja, Lagos and Kano international airports. Speaking with newsmen at the end of the virtual meeting presided over by the Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, at the State House, Abuja, the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Office of the Vice President, Mr. Laolu Akande, said contracts for which approvals were granted were for the three international airports. Akande who represented Aviation Minister, Hadi Sirika, stated that there was a memo presented by the Minister for Aviation, which got approval for the supply and installation of two sets of complete high-capacity passenger security screening systems for the Murtala Mohammed International Airports, Lagos and Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport in Abuja at the sum of N1,193,630,980. “There was also approval gotten by the Aviation Minister for the supply and installation of airfield ground lightning materials for the Murtala Mohammed International Airport, Lagos, and the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja and also the Mallam Aminu Kano International Airport, Kano at the sum of N2,329,961,099.60”, he said. Council also approved two memoranda for the Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, both of which are targeted at victims of the crime of human trafficking. Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Hajiya Sadiya Umar Farouk, who disclosed this explained that both memoranda, would be targeting specific agenda, including provision of assistance to victims, as well as rehabilitation and resettlement. According to her: “One memo is for Council to approve the National Policy for the Protection and Assistance of Trafficked Persons in Nigeria and the second memo is the memo on the Protocol for Identification, Safe Return and Rehabilitation of Traffic Persons in Nigeria. “These memos are very essential to what the NAPTIP does, that is the National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons and they will help to guide our work and action as regards to the protection and assistance of trafficked persons. The two memos were viciously approved by Council and we’re very grateful to Council for that.”