 Haniel Ukpaukure The theme for the 2022 edition of the International Women’s Day celebration – “Break the Bias” – is a fitting description of the tradition at Soulcomms Limited, one of Nigeria’s leading strategic communications and engagement consultancy companies, where women have consistently risen above their circumstances to attain heights and achieve great successes in a seemingly male-dominated profession. The theme resonates with the women who have not allowed themselves to be discriminated against; who have refused to be stereotyped on account of gender, boldly asserting their relevance and making invaluable contributions to the string of successes the company has recorded in its almost 18-year history. Mojisola Saka, Chief Operating Officer; Omonigho Agbator-Momodu and Uyiosa Aigbe can aptly be described as The Wise Women of Soulcomms. They are currently flying the flag that indicates the milestones that have been recorded by women across generations at the top-rate company. It is a flag that symbolizes the DNA that runs in the company. The women have succeeded because the company provides a conducive environment and a level playing field that allows each person to thrive, irrespective of gender. It is an environment that allows women to realize their full potential, which is evident in their ability to effortlessly juggle their roles as professionals and executives at the workplace, as well as wives, mothers, daughters and sisters at home. Despite the unenviable reality of carrying domestic and official burdens almost on a 24-hour basis, women have been able to make their mark by contributing immensely to the growth of Soulcomms, thanks to their never-say-die spirit. It is proof of their ability to break biases in a society where women have to work extra hard, more than their menfolk, to be recognized and appreciated. It is a befitting testimony to the resilience and resourcefulness of women at Soulcomm that Mojisola, the only woman to run the company since its establishment in 2004, has held the position longer than her male predecessors, literally responsible for the enviable height the company has attained today. She wears many caps that include team leader, business driver, mentor, entrepreneur, conceiver and administrator. The propriety of celebrating the women at Soulcomm on this year’s International Women’s Day must be viewed against the background of the general disapproval and outrage that has greeted the failure of lawmakers to pass the four gender equality bills which were expected to be part of the constitution amendment process currently going at the National Assembly. In the view of many Nigerians, especially women organizations, the action of the lawmakers is simply a reflection of the patriarchal nature of Nigeria, where male dominance forms part of the culture. According to the Human Resource Management International Digest (Volume 27 No.7, pp.9-11), “The patriarchal system such as seen in Nigeria remains a strong culture of male dominance and women continue to be subjugated. Thus, in Nigeria, the patriarchal system still forms a barrier to achieving a good work-life balance and advancement for women”. The patriarchal system accounts for why there is lack of access to education for the girl child, especially in some sections of the country where little value is placed on education of female children because of the age-old but erroneous belief that their place is in the kitchen as full time housewives. This belief is fueled by the thinking that she loses the family name the moment she is married off into another family, and is therefore not worth being invested in. There is also the cultural factor that robs the girl child of opportunity to acquire education because she is given out for marriage even before she attains adolescence, as is the practice in some areas. It is a system that encourages gender discrimination against women in virtually every segment of society – at the work place, in schools, in politics, in social organizations, etc. Succinctly put, Nigeria is a place where gender disparity has virtually reduced women to second class citizens, though the constitution guarantees equal rights and opportunities for all citizens. Even the statutes that set up public institutions discriminate against women, ignoring the same constitution. Last month, an Abuja Federal High Court upheld the January 22, 2022 dismissal from the Nigeria Police of a female officer, Omotola Olajide, for getting pregnant while unmarried. The court re-affirmed Regulation 127 of the Police, despite the argument of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) which instituted the case, that the action is a violation of Olajide’s rights which are enshrined in the 1999 Constitution, as amended. The NBA pointed out the discrimination in the action of the Police authorities in the face of the well-known fact that unmarried policemen impregnate women and are not dismissed from the service. In December, 2021, an Army Private, Hannah Akinlabi, was arrested and detained by the authorities for publicly accepting a marriage proposal from a member of the National Youth Service Corps at a passing out parade in Kwara State. The lady’s offence was that she violated military rules by publicly displaying emotion while in uniform. Incidentally, it was the time a video of a male soldier doing the same thing to a lady trended on social media, with Army authorities keeping mute on the matter. It took public outcry and appeals for the authorities to release the lady a day before Christmas to enable her to spend the festive season with her family, but not without a stern warning to ensure she did not repeat such an act. This is the society in which women at Soulcomm find themselves, but have refused to be victims of the many biases that are stacked against the female gender. It is the same society where they are breaking the proverbial glass ceiling. This is a feat that deserves recognition and celebration. Mojisola, a globally trained and experienced resource manager in Advertising, Experiential/Direct /Social Marketing and Banking, has handled projects within Nigeria and West Africa. An amazon in her own right, she leads the team from a strategic and execution perspective as COO. The numerous successes recorded by Soulcomm on all the projects under her watch have come about as a result of her knowledge and dexterity in Strategic Communications, Engagement and Messaging. She holds a Bachelor’s degree in Sociology, a Diploma Certificate in Issues and Crisis Management, London School of Public Relations and an Advanced Certificate in Social Media Management, Chartered Institute of Public Relations, in the United Kingdom. She is also an alumnus of the International School of Communications, London and a member of CIPR, UK and NIPR. Mojisola is guided by a personal philosophy of “Stand and be known for the best”, the reason she is seen by many as a torch bearer for the new generation of female professionals in the public relations industry. Omonigho has competencies in Engagement and Experiential/Direct Marketing (Events/Projects Marketing and Operations Development and Management). Her expertise in operational development and execution strategies has contributed immensely to chain of successes that have attended all the projects she has been part of, right from her days at Neo Media & Marketing. She is a graduate of Computer Science from Ambrose Alli University, Ekpoma, Edo State, and also has a certification in Administrative Management from the London Academy Business School. She brought to Soulcomm a diverse yet passionately immeasurable value to strategic thinking and output, and easily taps into her vast knowledge and experience, having successfully executed numerous pan-Nigeria activation campaigns for leading brands and across varied sectors. These sectors include FMCGs, telecoms, government and stakeholder/community relations, as well as financial services. Uyiosa, with a Bachelor’s degree in Political Science and a Diploma Certificate in Public Relations, has handled engagements with high profile clients in banking, FMCG, hospitality, government and non-government sectors. She is often described as a motivated and passionate soul who brings unparalleled commitment and dedication to her job, the reason she excels in every task she handles. Her ability to multi-task is evident in the fact that within and outside the office environment, she creates time to plan and execute projects in diverse areas. In addition to her job at Soulcomm where she helps the company deliver five-star performances in terms of strategic marketing communications on some of the most popular local and international brands across different sectors, Uyiosa is an interior decorator and designer whose works are found in commercial and residential properties. A co-founder of Scents of Aurora, an aromatherapy and self-care brand, she devotes her private time to mentoring young female teenagers on how to aspire and actualize their dreams for the purpose of contributing to nation building. As the world celebrates this year’s edition of the International Women’s Day,  here’s to more great accomplishments to these wise women who have borne and are bearing great talents to the marcomms industry, their clients and community at large.