 Chief of Defence Staff, Lucky Irabor, has reiterated the Nigerian Army’s determination to end terrorism in collaboration with national security and defence stakeholders. In this interview with selected Editors, Irabor discusses the evolution of terrorism worldwide, noting that extremism is not unique to Nigeria. The defence chief also explained the armed forces are doing differently to fight insurgency to the finish. According to him, the armed forces are more prepared for all scenarios. Excerpts: How have the strategies used to fight terrorism in Nigeria evolved? Some of our tactics have changed, but our vision remains the same – We want to bring an end to the beginning of all terrorism. We are achieving these in collaboration with stakeholders in national security and defence. Globally, terrorism has evolved in the last two decades. The case is not different in Nigeria. What we are doing differently is to be ahead of this evolving trend. The Armed Forces of Nigeria is more prepared for all scenarios. Unfortunately, it will do us more harm than good if we go public to reveal all we have done or what we have stopped doing or will do. The good news is that in all scenarios, Nigeria will win. Let us never forget the words of Winston Churchill, ‘Success is not final, failure is not fatal: it is the courage to continue that counts.’ Since the war against Boko Haram/ISWAP started, the military has lost some major battles in the North East. What is being done to avoid future defeats? A better way to look at it is that in the last 20 years, the military has won major battles in the North-East. We have won most of our battles, and that is why we are winning the war. This is not just an opinion. It is the fact. The most recent evidence from the Global Terrorism Report confirms this. A war is made up of several battles. In a perfect world, you plan to win everything, but perfection never happens in war. Sometimes the way forward is backwards. Sometimes you lose a battle to win the war. There has been a recent wave of military takeovers in Africa? Is the military approach a remedy to poor governance? First, let me make it clear that the probability of non-democratic leadership in Nigeria is zero. Rather than go back to our past, we have learnt from it. It is no longer an option. We are passing this message down the ladder. Like Nigeria, other African countries must strengthen their democratic processes rather than subvert them. Our findings reveal that one main reason for these negative events is when a leader overstays and loses focus. This causes government institutions to weaken, and eventually, the non-democratic take over. Some security stakeholders believe that the final stage of the war against terrorism will be faster if the country hires foreign fighters (mercenaries). Where lies the loyalty of the foreign fighter? To Nigeria or self? The men and women of the Armed Forces fight to protect Nigeria, not because they are paid to do it. It is because they, we see it as a duty. Certainly, we will continue to collaborate with other global powers and defence institutions, but we are not going to outsource our primary responsibility. What is the military leadership doing concerning complaints from some officers about injustice and unfair disciplinary procedures? There is a lot of misinformation and disinformation about the administrative codes and procedures of the Armed Forces. Like our global partners, the military does not operate with court orders. A court-martial is different from a civil court. The military has means to maintain discipline and order. How much support is the military getting from non-governmental organisations, especially on the non-kinetic approach to rebuilding peace? Just as nobody can use only one finger to write, the Armed Forces of Nigeria cannot right all the wrongs in security by itself. There is a lot of work that some of these organisations have put in, especially to protect women and children in the North East. A lot more still needs to be done on the non-kinetic approach to achieving peace.