 An All Progressive Party (APC) chieftain and Convener of BAT Vanguard from Ekiti State Hon. Sola Olofin has given reasons why Vice President Yemi Osinbajo and  Governor of Ekiti State, Kayode Fayemi should throw their weights behind the presidential ambition of Asiwaju Bola Ahmad Tinubu. Olofin, a telecom expert,  politician and founder of Reclaim Nigeria as well as Ekiti Youth Ambassadors  Forum  initiated “BAT Vanguard”  three years ago with the purpose of promoting the positive implications of  Bola Ahmed Tinubu’s presidential aspiration to the people. According to  Olofin,  the eight-year governor of Lagos State has the vision to turn around the socio-economic and political existence of the country. He  analysed the various economic interventions that were initiated by the Tinubu across  in the country, emphasising that the industrial revolution carried out in the former federal capital would be replicated in the nooks and crannies of the most populous black nation. The APC chieftain who hails from Ekiti State made reference to the inputs of Tinubu in the realisation of the various projects being witnessed in Lagos State, including the fertilizer factory inaugurated  yesterday  by President Mohammadu Buhari. He posited that the project and many others that have sustained and improved on the status of  Lagos State a reference point in terms of industrial revolution and job creation should also be a dream for youths in other parts of the country. Olofin expressed confidence in the health status of the presidential aspirant, arguing that testimonies abound on the capability of the former Senator of the Federal Republic to navigate the 36 states and as well as  impact on the generality of the people. He  stressed that activities being witnessed during his consultation trips round the country are enough pointer to drive home his argument with emphasis on the Sokoto trip and others where the presidential aspirant had to trek long distances as a result of the traffic created by the large number of supporters at the various events. While claiming that  Tinubu remains the most qualified for the number seat in the country, Olofin called on  Osinbajo and Fayemi to shelve any possible idea of contesting a seat, emphasizing that antecedents of Asiwaju Tinubu are enough to agree with his desire to create a new Nigeria that would be attractive to citizens both home and abroad. Olofin therefore charged the duo to initiate a process that would be embraced by both APC and members of other political parties from the southwest to align with the dream in the interest of the existing population as  well as unborn generations. He also used the opportunity to urge the northerners to honour the gentleman agreement that a southerner would replace President Mohammadu Buhari after the completion of his tenure.