 As the All Progressives Congress is strongly looking forward to its national convention next week, precisely on March 26, 2022, Chuks Okocha examines the strengths and weaknesses of the national chairmanship aspirants With the March 26 date confirmed for the much-awaited national convention of the All Progressives Congress (APC), it is becoming clearer that there may not be any consensus option after all. An indication to this is that aspirants for the office of national chairman have commenced the purchase of nomination forms after paying a non-refundable fee of N20 million. Though, officially, the office of the national chairman is zoned to the North-central geopolitical zone, there are some who vowed not to be deterred. Also, in what looks like a realignment of  political forces that led to the formation of the APC, stakeholders may have agreed in principle to allow one of the legacy political parties to produce the next national chairman of the party anytime the national convention will take place. The APC as a political party was formed by a coalition of the Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN) led by the former governor of Lagos State, Senator Bola Tinubu,  the Congress of Progressive Change (CPC) led by President Muhammadu Buhari, the New Peoples Democratic Party (NPDP),  a faction of the PDP led by the defecting governors of Sokoto State,  Aminu Waziri Tambuwal. Chibuike Amaechi, Bukola Saraki  and the All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP). So far, the CPC has taken the Presidency with President Buhari, the ACN produced the vice president, in the person of Prof Yemi Osinbajo, while the ANPP produced the Senate President with Ahmad Lawan. Abdulaziz Yari A two-term former governor of Zamfara State. Though, by official zoning released by the party, he is out of the race. Strengths: He is a one-time chairman of the Nigerian Governors Forum (NGF), a position that gave him a lot of influence and respect among his former colleagues and some serving governors. He has the resources and political experience. Weaknesses: If antecedents are anything to go by, then Yari would be a bad sell for the APC. The way and manner Yari managed the 2018 primaries, before the 2019 elections was a disaster, which caused the total loss of APC candidates in the state to PDP. Also, his inability to curtail bandits activities during his tenure as the governor of Zamfara State, was a disaster. Today, bandits have almost crippled the nation. The defection of the current Governor Bello Matawalle to the ruling APC is seen by political watchers as a threat to his aspirations. Matawalle is reportedly not on the same page with Yari, and has even allegedly accused his administration of corruption. He has a subsisting EFCC case. Saliu Mustapha He is an astute grassroots politician from Kwara State and the Turaki of Ilorin. Mallam Saliu Mustapha is the founder of Saliu Mustapha Foundation (SMF) which is involved in huge philanthropic services. Strengths: He represents a new hope in the political landscape of the country. A die-hard Buharist, Mallam Saliu Mustapha has an edge above other contestants as he is seen as a bridge between all party stakeholders including the older and younger generation in the party. Mustapha has paid his dues in political party administration. He was once national deputy chairman of the defunct CPC, one of the legacy parties that formed the APC.  His membership of the defunct CPC gave him an edge as both ACN and ANPP blocs have had their slots; it is the turn of the CPC bloc to produce the next national chairman. Weaknesses: He’s racing against former governors that are seen as heavy political gladiators; might lack the financial capability compared to the former governors. Ali Modu Sheriff By zoning arrangement, the former Borno State Governor, Ali Modu Sheriff, is out of the race but he has insisted that he will contest. Strengths: Sheriff is a founding member of the APC; he is also a leader of the defunct ANPP. He is very rich and has the resources to stage a huge campaign for the national chairmanship seat. He has political experience and can gather some support from his ex-colleagues. Sheriff’s chairmanship of the PDP a few years ago, is seen by his camp as a huge political advantage which the APC should leverage upon at the convention.  Having presided over the PDP, the former Borno State governor knows the strengths and weaknesses of the party and should come to the battlefield better prepared than others for the big contest. Weaknesses: Ordinarily, no Nigerian may want to take a party Sheriff as the national chairman seriously. He has a reputation for destabilising the political structure of parties. His foray as PDP factional national chairman is an eye-opener to the political class. People want to dine with the former Borno State Governor with a long spoon. Sheriff’s association with the late founder of Boko Haram, Mohammed Yusuf, also known as Ustaz Mohammed Yusuf is an established fact. Nigerians would be disappointed if the APC gives him the opportunity to chair their party. George Akume A two-term governor of Benue State and former senator, Senator Akume is the Minister of Special Duties and Intergovernmental Affairs. Strengths: As a cabinet member, he can muster the confidence of some of his colleagues. He also has the huge financial resources required to battle for the national chairmanship seat.  As a former Governor and Senator, he has the required contact necessary in getting the APC top job. Weaknesses: Seen as extremely arrogant and boastful, which also caused APC to lose  the state to the opposition PDP, after  the decamping of the governor to the opposition party, PDP. Senator Akume does not appeal to the new breed of politicians in APC.  His role in making APC  lose Benue State to the opposition is well documented and a minus for his aspiration. Tanko Al-Makura Al-Makura is also a former Nasarawa State Governor. The 69-year-old businessman-turned-politician is also keen on becoming the next APC NWC chairman. Strengths: As a former governor and serving Senator, Al-Makura has the required resources, experience and network to become the next national chairman. Weaknesses: Al-Makura has running battles with the EFCC and would make a negative brand for the APC as party national chairman. He is reputed for not keeping to his promises and is seen as a selfish politician who always places his interest ahead of collective interest. Last year, he visited the EFCC headquarters a couple of times to answer questions on money laundering running into billions of naira. The former governor, however, said he was only invited by the EFCC but never detained. Abdullahi Adamu Currently a senator representing Nasarawa West Senatorial District in the National Assembly,  Abdullahi Adamu was governor of Nasarawa State from  May 29, 1999 to  May 29, 2007. He is supposedly the anointed national chairman but opposition to this is high. The contestants have refused to accept his nomination through consensus. Only March 26 will decide. Strengths: Adamu is a former Nasarawa State Governor and a third-term senator. He enjoys the same privilege of former governors as mentioned above. Weaknesses: The majority of party members see him as too old to be in the race, taking into cognizance the complex nature of the job. At 75, Adamu is regarded by some as too ambitious and would not make a good candidate for the national chairmanship seat. Sani Mohammed Musa A 54-year old member of the upper chamber of the National Assembly, represented Niger East senatorial district in 2007 and contested for the PDP governorship ticket in the state and lost. Strengths: His has a smooth-running relationship with party members. The governors of Kebbi State and Jigawa State who recently took his name to President Buhari are said to be his main backers. The young politician, who is fondly called “Sani 313” by his political admirers, believes he has what it takes to take on the chairmanship position. Weaknesses: He does not have the necessary experience as a party administrator. He needs to put in more effort to boost his popularity amongst the top party elites. His endurance level and loyalty to the party have not been tested. Etsu Mohammed At just 36, Mohammed is the youngest of all the aspirants. He is an aide to Governor Abubakar Bello of Niger State Niger and a former youth leader of the ANPP (now part of APC).  Not much is known about him politically.