 Fidelis David in Akure Ondo State High Court in Akure yesterday dismissed the suit instituted by the Deji and paramount ruler of Akure, Oba Aladelusi Aladetoyinbo, challenging the installation of Oba Olugbemiga Ademula, Arulewolasi III, as the 49th Oba of Isinkan and the 38th Iralepo. The crisis surrounding the ascension to the stool of Iralepo of Isinkan has been on since 2021. Isinkan kingmakers had elected Prince Oluwagbenga Adimula Ojo as the Iralepo-elect but shortly after that, on October 4, 2021, the Deji installed another Prince, Henry Adeyeye, in his palace, to defy the kingmakers’ election. Delivering the judgement, Justice Segun Odusola said the Deji of Akure has no document in support of his claims. He said the instrument of office issued by Ondo State Executive Council recognising Iralepo as traditional ruler of Isinkan subsists as it has not been challenged anywhere. Recall that on November 6, 2021, following the kingship tussle, Oba  Aladetoyinbo had dragged the Ondo State Governor, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, to court over the  crisis. The monarch approached the court to seek an interlocutory injunction restraining Akeredolu, the state Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice and six other defendants over the kingship crisis, praying the court to stop the defendants from effecting the selection of the new Iralepo of Isikan, “pending the hearing and determination of the substantive suit.” The plaintiffs are the Deji, the Lisa of Akure Land, High Chief F.S Olubodun; the Sao of Akure, Chief M.A Adebayo; the Asamo of Akure, High Chief R.F Olusanya, and the Ajana of Akure, High Chief O. Olalusi. The defendants are Governor Akeredolu, the Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice of Ondo State, Funmilayo Afe; Olasehinde Abidakun, James Kolawole, Williams Tafa, Gbenga Ojo and Bayo Ojo. Oba Aladelusi also asked the court to restrain the state Attorney General and other defendants from presenting themselves for the installation of the new Iralepo pending the hearing and determination of the substantive suit.