I live in Nigeria but I know Barack Obama’s blood pressure. I live in Nigeria but I have no details on the health of my leaders. It is absolutely shocking that Nigerians have not paid attention to the issue of health of its public servants. More shocking is the fact that we claim to copy our democracy from America. But while Americans get a health declaration of its Presidential candidate, we get none here. I must reiterate, this is not to spite or berate anyone’s health but it must be echoed that people have a right to know. They have the right to make their decisions after a medical report is submitted by Presidential candidates. We have had too much issues with absenteeism in our presidency; it is always the case of a medical visit while the nation is on fire. I am sure we can’t forget in a hurry the debacle with President Umaru Yar’Adua and the constitutional quandary emanating from that experience. A lot of people have argued that health is a personal thing and I respect such arguments, but I must admit once you decide to serve the nation, your health report must be made public. I will never ask for the health record of a private individual, it’s akin to stupidity. But with the new Presidential campaign season in full swing, with aspirations and projections, it is only fair for Nigerians to be fully aware of what we are dealing with health-wise. It is incumbent on the people, to enunciate the need for a medical report submission, because the people always bear the brunt of medical conditions of our leaders. Imagine how much of public funds have gone into health challenges of our leaders, while the state clinic hardly works. It must be said for good measure and fairness a complete health report will help to avert such dangers. There is no problem in being sick, it is only fair to let the people know. There have been world leaders that had health issues and it didn’t affect their work. Theresa May had been managing diabetes for years – she takes four Insulin injections daily; JFK had a chronic back pain; President Roosevelt suffered Polio; Tony Blair suffered supraventricular tachycardia; Gordon Brown suffered problems with his eyes – he sustained injuries from childhood; Chernenko suffered emphysema and heart failure – he was a smoker since the age of 9; Fidel Castro suffered diverticulitis; the list is endless but at least the people know the problem. What is the health condition of our leaders and intending politicians? The people have to know.