Not too many businesswomen and chief executives have her kind of guts. She does not cringe, even in the face of difficulty. Perhaps, this unique attribute was the impetus that made her go into business at a time when many had not given her any chance of survival. Indeed, when Princess Toyin Kolade set up her business, many had sneered at her, but she simply refused to entomb her living dream. Unlike many other women, she likes to run neck and neck with men, for as long as the race is for a noble cause. And she has successfully engraved her name in the hearts of the generality of her compatriots. No doubt, nobody can deny the fact that her name is essentially synonymous with success. When the Iyalaje Oodua was taken to court for allegedly being involved in a $32.6bn fraud, many who know her for being straightforward and honest, argued that there must be a kind of mistake somewhere. In the end, those people were right after all, as she has finally wriggled herself out of the legal jigsaw that threatened her business empire, following the judgment of a Federal High Court, Ikoyi, Lagos that struck out the case. It was revealed that the billionaire businesswoman has proven to the world and those who believe in her that she is, indeed, a woman who does her business with an open mind and with no skeleton in her closet. The presiding judge, Justice Peter Lifu, threw out the charge sequel to a withdrawal application made by the Attorney-General of the Federation (AGF). Counsel from the office of the AGF, Pius Akutah, had applied to withdraw the charge as a result of a letter from the nominal complainant, Access Bank Plc. Counsel to the socialite businesswoman and boss of Fisolak Global Resources Limited,  Mr. Dele Adesina, SAN, commended the conduct of the prosecution by withdrawing the charge after an objection had been raised. Also, counsel to the other defendants, Dada Awosika, SAN commended the prosecution on the withdrawal but urged the court to dismiss the charge and acquit the defendants because the charge flew from a business transaction. However, Justice Lifu, in his ruling, said that since the case was not heard on its merit but merely withdrawn before the trial commenced, the appropriate order to make is to strike it out. Accordingly, the charge was struck out and the defendants discharged. The businesswoman was charged alongside six others before the court by the Office of the Attorney-General of the Federation (AGF) in a suit marked FHC/L/407c/2019, for allegedly obtaining the aforementioned sum by pretence. Immediately after the judgment was delivered, the business tycoon in the mood of jubilation, thanked Almighty God for what He had done in her life. She equally appreciated the legal team comprising the senior lawyer, Adesina, Olapade Awowole and Bimpe Ajegbomogun Sanusi as well as all who stood by her.