 Olori Janet Afolabi, CNN award winning journalist, publisher and Queen of Apomu Kingdom in Osun State has joined the league of authors. Her debut titled, “The Masters Who Trained Me”, was unveiled on February 24 ,at the Alapomu Palace Hall in Apomu, headquarters of Isokan Local Government Area of Osun State as part of activities marking the second coronation anniversary of HRM, Oba Kayode Adenekan Afolabi, the Alapomu of Apomu. Presenting the book to the guests, Gbenga Adefaye, General Manager/Editor in Chief of Vanguard Newspapers said it was an important gift that should last till eternity. Adefaye, who is a former two term President of Nigerian Guild of Editors said:  “Olori Janet Afolabi is a famous journalist; not just a journalist but an award- winning journalist with local and international awards.” He said: “Olori Janet set out to remember those who took her on the journey of becoming a master and successful journalist. The book is a tribute to the mentors of Olori Janet. They guided, trained and tutored her till she decided that their efforts deserve to be documented for posterity. “It is  acknowledgment of excellence of the work of the most famous Ray Ekpu, Dan Agbese, Yakubu Mohammed, Soji Akinrinade, Nosa Igiebor and Dare Babarinsa.” Olori Afolabi said she wrote the book to honour the renowned journalists who trained, drilled and molded her into someone with valuables skills. The Olori said: “They gave me media platform to operate, explore and express myself. They gave me wings to fly in the winds of journalism travails and triumphs. I want to appreciate them while they are alive. I am expressing my gratitude by giving them a gift that will live after them. The gift is this book. My experience with each of them and the techniques of newswriting they taught me are chronicled in the six chapters of the book. “The book is a source of material for the younger generation of journalists and journalism students. It is also an addition to the existing literature on the Nigerian media industry. The history of journalism in Nigeria may not be complete without the contributions of these great men who have trained and mentored some of the best hands in journalism. They are indeed an asset to the world of journalism.” Among those at the event were the Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi; Olofa of Offa, Oba Mufutau Gbadamosi; Secretary to the Oyo State Government, Oluwole Oyebamij, who represented Governor Gboyega Oyetola; Asoya of Isoya who represented the Ooni of Ife; Akarigbo of Remo, Oba Babatunde Amoo; Onire of Ire and the Olowu of Owu kuta. Other personalities include Waheed Olagunju, Former Acting Managing Director of Bank of Industry; Marouf Olanrewaju, Majority leader of Osun State House of Assembly; Yemi Lawal, Commisioner for Youth and Sports, Osun State; Marouf Akinremi, Chairman Isokan Local Government Area of Osun state; Soji Akinrinade former Executive Director/Editor in Chief, Newswatch magazine; Mustapha Isa, President, Nigerian Guild of Editors; Bolaji Adebiyi, Managing Editor, THISDAY Newspapers/Vice President (West) Nigerian Guild of Editors; Dotun Oladipo, former President Guild of Corporate Online Publishers and Gabriel Akinadewo Publisher Freedom Online.