 The Nigerian hospitality sector continues to grow as consumer preferences shift in search of new and exciting experiences. The opportunities are limitless, allowing discerning businesses to capitalize on this desire by curating unique experiences that appeal to specific audiences while generating healthy profits. Boutique hotels are distinguished by their smaller size, more specialized, personalized service, and unique local flavor, which varies by area. Boutique hotels cater to the individual, offering personalized treatment, and are typically meant to blend in with the surrounding community and represent the areas and cultures. These hotels are becoming increasingly popular, to the point where top bargain hotel chains are attempting to profit off this trend by creating their own boutique range. The growth in popularity is not due to any demography, but rather to a shift in people’s attitudes regarding travel, as they seek out fresh and unique experiences. V-Hospitality is a new company that recently opened its doors in Abuja and is poised to set a new standard for professionalism and expertise in the way hospitality-based enterprises operate in Nigeria. During a recent sit-down with the Chief Executive Officer, V-Hospitality’s, Abdulkarim Ahmed explained that: “V-Hospitality is a consultancy that offers operations management, franchising, and training services for third-party hoteliers and asset owner. The company is also on a mission to help the hospitality industry thrive and overcome recent economic challenges brought on by the covid-19 pandemic,” “V-Hospitality has established a highly effective methodology that has been tried and tested over the years while growing my own boutique hotel”. Abdulkarim has had success running his highly reviewed Boutique Hotel, the Vanern Residence) in Asokoro Abuja, as well as consulting in the establishment and management of additional boutique hotels. Abdulkarim described what the new venture hopes to accomplish by launching its operations: “V-Hospitality’s mission is to be synonymous with exceptional world-class service delivery and to be a trusted consultancy in the hospitality business. We’ve had great success delivering multi-function services to third-party hoteliers through our hybrid service, that includes franchising and operations management for a collection of hoteliers and homeowners who are looking to start up a boutique hotel or refresh their business to create more individuality and appeal. We also offer operations management and a secure, guided path to assured profitability with access to an invaluable ecosystem of resources and customers.”