 …Promises to build youth capacity Ahead of his planned consultative meetings with leaders of thought across Nigeria, the President of the Diaspora Igbo group, the Igbo World Assembly (IWA), Dr. Nwachukwu Anakwenze, has disclosed that eliminating corruption and developing reliable security that guarantees the safety of lives and property of all Nigerians remains his top challenges if nominated for the presidential race in 2023. The past leader of different Igbo and Nigerian organisations in diaspora, who will be in Nigeria this week as part of his consultative meetings in a virtual world press conference at the weekend  disclosed that he would also be in a closed-door meeting with leaders of Abagana Town Union in Njikoka Local Government Area, his home town. During the consultative meetings, Anakwenze, who has been in the vanguard for a better Nigeria, said he would look into the viabilities of declaring his candidacy for the presidential race in 2023. The Igbo, who is also the traditional Prime Minister of Abagana Town Union, while fielding questions from journalists amid his nationwide tour this month, said he would also focus on youths and women capacity development and hands on empowerment to harness the natural resources for the benefit of all Nigerians if voted for a president. Anakwenze, the past president of  Nigeria American World Affairs Council, Igbo World Assembly, Council of Igbo State, Anambra State Association in United State, and Anambra State Association Worldwide, promised that:  “I will work aggressively towards creating a Nigeria where people would enjoy 24/7 electric and renewable energy (solar, wind and biomass). “I will create jobs and utilise all the God-given endowment for the good of Nigeria and Africans; develop a world standard education and health care at home with access; implement restructuring, regionalisation and devolution of powers expressed in a new Nigerian Constitution. “I will recognise agriculture as a key to sustainable growth and development. As president, I will revive and revitalise the agriculture sector as a source of food for the teeming population of Nigerians as a major export and foreign exchange earner and the primary source of industrial raw materials.” The seasoned American trained medical doctor added with optimism that he would  steer the country towards rapid industrial revolution if given the opportunity as the Nigerian president. Attachments area