 The Managing Director/Chief Executive, Dignity Finance and Investment Limited, Dr. Chijioke Ekechukwu, in this interview with James Emejo, said the government had been paying more of lip service to the quest for economic diversification, expressing worry that despite contributing significantly to GDP, government is still unable to derive enough revenues from the non-oil sector. He also spoke about the failure of leadership in the country’s energy sector and the need for Nigerians to embrace agricultural exports and entrepreneurship among others. Let’s start with the implication of the Russian – Ukrainian conflict, what impact does it have on the Nigerian economy? We are in a global village and anything that happens to a particular continent affects economic activities of countries in other continents. And that’s how we have all been in one loop. Having said this, the impact of the war between Ukraine and Russia has affected the economic activities of the entire world. Russia is a major oil supplier- of course, when you hear OPEC+ (OPEC Plus), it is Russia and other countries – and because Russia is major oil and gas producing country and Ukraine is also major producer of gas, iron and steel and many other mineral resources that they have – the conflict has actually affected the supply of oil and gas in the whole world and it has affected the price. Of course, today we have seen a jump in oil price from when it was around $70 per barrel to what it is right now just because of the armed conflict between both countries. The implication of this to us as a country is the fact that, as you already know, we are not benefitting from this. If we were not subsidizing oil price, we will obviously have benefitted because as the price of oil increased, yes, we will get a lot of revenue from it but that revenue is also going to be paid out as subsidy payment to other importers of oil. The implication again is the fact that because we are not refining our oil within the country, it is difficult for us to have any benefits arising from this. If we were refining our own oil, the country would have been getting a lot of revenue from this increase in the price of oil. Of course, revenue is coming but we are also using it to pay the importers of these petroleum products. That is just the implications for us, which is not a good one. Every other oil-producing country is smiling to the bank right now, smiling when it comes to their revenue base, and foreign reserves but Nigeria is not because we are paying exactly what we are getting to the importers of oil. We cannot emphasize the importance of making our refineries work and I have always asked questions: how come we have had this problem of refineries for about two decades now and nobody has said any single thing, nobody has said anything that can improve our situation – not until recently we have had a refinery coming from a private sector player; what has happened to our refineries and what were the problems that cannot be resolved? Have we had anybody punished in the past for not having these refineries work? The fact that we have been pumping so much money into turn-around maintenance and the turn-around maintenance would just come and go without results. Nigerians actually deserve to know what has happened and why it that our refineries are not working? But if it is an individual or a refinery belonging to the private sector it will work. What is the problem and how have we been voting monies into these refineries, year in, year out and no outcome without positive outcome and no one has been arrested, nobody has been made to pay back the amounts collected and no contractor has been questioned on why his turn-around maintenance didn’t work. Should we continue like this as a country and how come people are not asking questions? Those are the questions we need to ask and those are the answers we expect from the players in this area. Nigeria is said to have enormous gas resources, which are yet to be fully explored. Don’t you think this is long overdue? It is really unfortunate that the potential we have had…if today you call something potential, we expect that in the next five to 10 years that potential would be converted into actual production or opportunity. Gas production has remained a potential in the last 50 years. We call it potential. We have been flaring gas for many years and I know I listened to the managing director of one of the leading oil-producing companies that said any day the leadership of this country considered it necessary for gas flaring to reduce, it will happen. The fact is that we have not had any commitment from the leadership of the country to actually stop flaring gas or pipe the gas to other countries that would buy them. Of course, we know LNG is doing something in that regard now but we could just have relied on the gas we have today to turn -around the revenue base of this country but we are not doing that. And that is one area any serious leadership should be looking at to see that we have all the potential we have to convert all these potential to actual productivity in order to build our revenue base. We have opportunities to build our revenue base but we don’t utilise them, unfortunately. We also have opportunities in the solid minerals sector yet we are not utilising them to build our revenue base. It is not as if we are not mining these solid minerals – but they are being mined by individuals and private sector parties who are not bringing the proceeds to the government. So each time we hear our system talk about revenue shortfall, I wonder whether we are actually optimising all the revenue potential that we have had in this country. The ball is also in the court of the government to throw these opportunities open either to the private sector or harmonise them in order to derive potentials in these areas. Post-COVID, the Nigerian economy has continued to show resilience as demonstrated in the latest GDP numbers. Can we comfortably expect smooth sailing going forward? Well, it’s not yet uhuru because the growth you have seen in the Nigerian economy is what we have also seen in other parts of the world. Post COVID-19 global growth was a surprise to even the World Bank and IMF to say they did not expect this kind of growth after the pandemic. Having said that, you know when you are performing and you think you are performing well – but you could actually have done far better than you think you are doing if you could include all the possibilities that exist within your strength. So I do not think it is uhuru yet but if we sustain what we are doing right now: don’t forget that this growth is also because the oil price has gone up. If we continue this way, yes,  it is expected that we are going to do well but the good news is that the government said only 35 per cent of revenue base is expected from oil,  the other 65 per cent they expect to get from the non-oil sector. That’s good news because it is the first time we are hearing that. Before now, 90 per cent revenue will come from the oil sector and just 10 per cent from the non-oil sector. And it is also a thing for us to ponder because the non-oil sector has been contributing 70 per cent to GDP yet we are not getting the revenue from that sector. The true picture is the fact that we are making efforts towards diversification but we have not started getting the results of that diversification. Of course, the revenue base we are expecting to grow is actually going to be coming from the tax net that we have increased and not that sectors are beginning to bring in revenue for the government. So you see that the non-oil sector is contributing a lot to the GDP of the country but the government on its own is not getting enough revenue from that area. So some of the things that need to be done are that the efficiency of tax collection must be increase and the government would also need revenues coming from revenue generating MDAs and ensure that they are accounted for. The government should ensure that the various MDAs are accountable – because nobody is monitoring them. MDAs should be more accountable for the revenues they generate. Also, we are not getting enough revenues from tourism compared to other countries like the United Arab Emirates, which have so much money coming from tourism – and even in many other countries that we know in Africa. Let us also see that we have a lot of potential coming from that area even if it means the government building certain tourism destinations and then privatising or provide a level playing ground for the private sector to develop tourism. You also know we used to generate a lot of revenues from our shipping lines which do no longer exist today, from our airlines which do no longer exist today. Kenya and Ethiopia are making a lot of revenue from aviation – which we have also lost because we didn’t develop those sectors. We need to look at sectors of our economy that can actually generate revenue and take them seriously, one at a time, and make sure that government can generate more revenue from the non-oil sector. Until we get to that point, we can then say we are fully diversified. We are talking about diversification far more than we are taking the actions. Recently, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) launched an incentive scheme to encourage foreign exchange repatriation, especially for export activities. How well do you think this would support the economy? Yes, such incentives have been seen to be working. But I have often mentioned that I have not seen enough incentives for export business. The incentives should come in various dimensions to the extent that while exporters should be able to get these kinds of incentives for sending their products out, the major incentive for exporters right now is the exchange rate. The higher the exchange rate, the higher the incentive for an exporter. So, I encourage all Nigerians to stop importation. Right now with the exchange rate we have, every importer should actually become an exporter. So the question they should ask themselves is what is that thing to export? Let us all become exporters; by the time we all became exporters and the exchange rate is an incentive for them: when you export something and you get foreign exchange, you exchange for very high value for your Naira money. The next incentive is the one the CBN has introduced which is to give them monetary benefits. Having said this, the level playing ground for exportation has to come in. The ease of doing business has to be re-addressed and reassessed all the time. Now, when we announce it and keep talking about it and we are not interrogating how well it is doing, then we haven’t done well. We have some agricultural products that are needed all over the world: we are doing well in cotton, sesame seed and all of them but have we particularly noted the problems that exporters of these products are going through? On this issue about exports, there needs to be constant training for the exporters: let them know the mistakes they are making; let them know what is acceptable in the international market, and what standards would make their products acceptable. Many exporters today get their products out of the country and they are rejected there or they are priced very low. So we need to continue to have training programmes for all exporters and in fact, potential exporters so that people would know what to do in order to have good pricing for the products they export. Recently Facebook announced that Nigerians would henceforth pay 7.5 per cent value-added tax (VAT) on all ad placements effective from January 1, 2022. What are the economic implications of this move on Nigerians and the economy in general? First, the Finance Act as amended has included many of these virtual marketing companies. Before now they were doing business in Nigeria and the government was not getting revenues. You can imagine if we share from these bogus profits these people are declaring because they are doing a lot of business in Nigeria. So for the government to say that 65 per cent of the revenue base would be coming from the non-oil sector and that is part of what they are going to be doing. A lot of money will come into our coffers if we start charging such VAT. However, on the side of the consumers, it would actually increase the cost of doing business. It will increase the cost of production and the cost of doing business, which would be transferred to the consumers. If people pay to publish an advert on Google, they will also pass the cost to the consumers. But it is a win-win for the government and though the consumers are going to pay for it, it is going to increase the revenue base and I think we need to first generate that revenue from that sector because it runs into a huge amount of money and we need to take advantage of it. Are you not worried that transferring additional costs to consumers will further hurt their purchasing power given that the chances for wage increase do not seem to be feasible at the moment? Actually, the inflation rate is going to be rising again. The things that are going to increase the inflation rate are already staring us in the face – when the fuel subsidy is removed eventually towards the end of the year. If it is removed obviously it is going to affect inflation.  When we see costs of agricultural products rising every day, we are expecting that inflation will increase. But the most important thing is that the country’s GDP is going to rise and if the GDP of the country rises and the per capita income rises, you will see that prices of goods and services may be high but people can afford them because the money that is in circulation will continue to ripple and the ripple effect will get into people’s pockets. Yes, the people that may suffer are civil servants whose incomes have been fixed but you will see that the people that are on their own will continue to grow in their businesses and money will continue to circulate. And so when GDP per capita increases, the poverty level will start dropping and when the poverty level drops, you will see wealth and you will feel it. What is your advice to Nigerians especially in these difficult economic conditions? My advice to Nigerians is that whether the economy is booming or there is a problem in the economy: when we look around us, there is always an opportunity for somebody to take advantage of. There is always an opportunity for business growth. There is always a latent need somewhere for somebody to develop and there will be a lot of people in need of it and that is just one business opportunity there. People should think more of being entrepreneurs than looking for work opportunities because somebody else is going to create that work and why not you.