 Adedayo Akinwale After days of leadership tussle that plagued the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Yobe state Governor, Mai Mala Buni and the National Secretary of the party, Sen. John Akpanudoedehe appeared to have crawled their way back to power as the Chairman and Secretary of the Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) of the party. Buni had travelled out of the country to Dubai for medical reasons when a faction of APC governors moved against him. The Governor of Niger state, Abubakar Bello assumed the leadership of the party in acting capacity while Buni was away. While the crisis raged, there was confusion over the fate of Akpanudoedehe. While reports claimed he had resigned, though he insisted that he remained the secretary of the party until President Muhammadu Buhari said otherwise. “I have read in social media that I have resigned as Secretary of the APC. I want to state that it is not true that I did resign. If I had resigned, you would have seen my letter of resignation written by me. Someone cannot just say somebody is dead when he is alive. “Someone cannot say what the president said. I have not received any letter from anywhere. As I said, nobody is bigger than the party. The issue is that, have I resigned, the answer is no. I am the National Secretary of the party,” Akpanudoedehe had said. However, in a dramatic twist, Buni bounced back Tuesday when his Personal Assistant, Mr. Muritala Yakubu was given access to the national secretariat of the party for the first time in more than a week. Though Buni is not back in the country yet, the meeting some governors held in London with President Muhammadu Buhari appeared to have resolved the lingering leadership crisis in the party. After Buni’s aides gained access to their offices, Akpanudoedehe also arrived at the national Secretariat of the party around 12:08 pm. While addressing journalists briefly at the national Secretariat of the party in Abuja, Akpanudoedehe said the ruling party was now crisis free despite the events of the last few days. He stated: “The Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) of the All Progressives Congress (APC) under the Chairmanship of His Excellency, Governor Mai Mala Buni of Yobe State, makes this Press Release to clarify the events of last week and reassure the membership and stakeholders of the Party, as well as the Nigerian people in general, that the Governing Party is crisis-free, strong and remains united in giving the country the transformative leadership and good governance which she promised them.” Akpanudoedehe said the CECPC  had always done its best to steer the affairs of the APC in line with the mandate invested in her at inauguration by the National Executive Council (NEC) of APC. He added that on February 28, Buni took a long-delayed trip abroad on health grounds, leaving behind written authorisation for other members of the CECPC to continue work in his absence, particularly the day to day management of the APC. Akpanudoedehe said:  “That in his absence, sundry activities earlier scheduled for action appeared to develop fresh urgency in order to satisfy the timetable for the 2023 general election released by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), thus galvanising some within the CECPC to act in their best understanding of both the situation and the leadership dynamics in the Committee/Party. “That all such actions were clearly identified at all times as happening in an acting or proxy capacity, and under the auspices of the substantive Chairman, His Excellency, Governor Mai Mala Buni, contrary to widespread speculations that the Chairman, Secretary or some other officials of the CECPC have been removed from Office or otherwise replaced.” Akpanudoedehe said the caretaker Committee was intact and functional as originally constituted. The secretary assured that the delivery of a seamless  National Convention of APC slated for March 26 was top on the priority of the Caretaker committee. He added, “We shall continue to execute such assignments as are legal pending the return of the Chairman who is on his way back to the country and shall resume Office on arrival with the full support of all members and other stakeholders. “We are grateful to INEC for her firm guidance in the entire circumstances.” Akpanudoedehe revealed that the party had engaged a team of senior lawyers to address a purported court order halting the planned APC National Convention. The ruling party called on the Judiciary to give the matter the needed and expedient attention in a bid to vacate the purported Court order and allow for the conduct of a transparent and rancour-free National Convention. Akpanudoedehe restated the absolute loyalty of the CECPC  to the APC and the leadership of the party led by President Muhammadu Buhari. He also reassured members and citizens that the ruling party was stronger than ever before and poised to extend her winning streak to 2023 and beyond.