Emma Okonji and Ugo Aliogo MTN Nigeria at the weekend, officially celebrated the Group-wide brand refresh identity with a simplified and innovative logo. Unveiling the logo in Lagos, the telecoms company also announced its brand repositioning using a contemplative slogan — “What Are We Doing Today?”, which also articulated the context behind the new logo. Present at the event were key members of the MTN leadership team, celebrities and well-established opinion leaders across relevant industries, media stakeholders and high-value customers. This is the second brand overhaul since the MTN Group was founded in 1994. Back in 2004, the changes made to the brand resulted in MTN taking ownership of the colour yellow that is now synonymous with MTN. It also helped to elevate the brand to where it is today, recognised as the most valuable in Africa. The company’s new logo forgoes the italics, the red underscore and the solid coloured oval present in the previous logo for a minimalist look that retains the oval (now represented as a solid outline) with the letters M-T-N nestled in it. These can be used against a sunshine yellow or plain white background in either black or yellow font colours. The rebranding is an extension and visual representation of MTN Group’s refreshed strategy, dubbed Ambition 2025 and premised on leading digital solutions for Africa’s progress. Through the delivery of the strategy, MTN says it aims to accelerate growth by building the largest and most valuable platform businesses and driving its industry leading connectivity operations. The Chief Executive Officer, MTN Nigeria, Mr. Karl Toriola, explained that the rebranding exemplifies MTN’s commitment to continuously create value for all its stakeholders, with the new logo contextualising the company’s identity as a digital citizen, open to change, young at heart, inviting, digitally dynamic and progressive. “We want to play our part in harnessing the potential and supporting the progress of our people by driving digital and financial inclusion. It is a well-known fact that the youth are central to achieving this potential. Whilst we remain focused on all our customers and stakeholders, our brand evolution demonstrates an enhanced focus on the youth,” he said. Also speaking at the event, MTN Nigeria’s Chief Marketing Officer, Adia Sowho, expressed her excitement with regards to the brand refresh, emphasising the company’s predilection for building digital platforms that enable Africa’s progress. “The new brand identity is modern, simple, bold and digitally dynamic. It kicks off with a provocative and simple question, ‘What are we doing today?’ With a clear and concise brand strategy that Opportunity + Energy = Progress, MTN understands that to truly unlock the full benefits and potential of the digital world people require a combination of drive, progressive thinking and the right tools,” Sowho said. “This rebrand highlights MTN’s commitment to continuously evolve and explore innovative initiatives that provide value to all our stakeholders. A pioneer of progress from the beginning, MTN looks to drive this progress further through action and doing. In delivering its vision, MTN aims to drive a positive shift in Africa and harness the continent’s boundless opportunity,” Sowho added .