Alliance Place Raises the Bar in Energy Savings, Employee Productivity Tenants at the eco-friendly office building at Ikoyi, including Mastercard and Selectium (Hewlett Packard Enterprises), report enhanced staff productivity, a reliable power supply, and a 30 percent reduction in energy bills. A statement explained that Alliance Place, a signature green project of Africa Capital Alliance (ACA), one of the leading drivers of sustainable office buildings in Nigeria, received final EDGE certification in September 2020, after achieving 23 per cent energy savings, 32 per cent water savings, and 22 per cent less embodied energy in materials. Hewlett Packard Enterprises, operated by Selectium, believes that renting space at Alliance Place was a good choice that fits the company’s sustainability goals. “We leased office space at Alliance Place because we wanted an eco-friendly work environment that has a reliable power supply, is comfortable, and work-friendly. At many levels, we believe we made the right choice,” Ejike Onyenokporo of Hewlett Packard Enterprise said. “We have seen a significant reduction in our energy bills of up to 30 percent. The well-ventilated spaces, lighting system, and general comfortable ambiance have contributed towards improved staff productivity and satisfaction,” he added. Mastercard, an Alliance Place client since 2019, said the daylighting features of the office spaces positively impact employee productivity by reducing eye strain and improving mood. “Alliance Place stands out from other prime office buildings because despite being on a busy road, it is still serene as though the noise is filtered,” Eyinsan Towne, the facility coordinator, Mastercard said. Alliance Place features a light and airy ground floor reception area and has seven floors of flexible office space. The office building uses resource-efficient design features and technologies to reduce its environmental impact and lower operating costs. This includes a reduced window-to-wall ratio, higher thermal performance glass, a variable refrigerant flow (VRF) system, and energy-saving lighting. It also uses low-flow faucets and water-efficient water closets and urinals in all bathrooms to boost efficiency in water use. Other features include in-situ reinforced concrete slab for the floor, steel sheets on steel rafters for the roof, solid, dense concrete blocks for internal and external walls, and plasterboards on metals studs for interior walls, while aluminum profile cladding was used for exterior walls. EDGE (Excellence in Design for Greater Efficiencies) is an innovation of the IFC, a member of the World Bank Group. EDGE empowers developers of residential and commercial buildings to deliver resource-efficient buildings in a fast, easy, and affordable way. EDGE is a key part of IFC’s efforts to lead a sustainable future by encouraging construction developers worldwide to build a safer climate and currently in use in over 140 countries.