 James Sowole in Abeokuta The Nigerian Police Zone 2, comprising Lagos and Ogun, have  arrested 11 persons in connection with the gruesome murder of Olu of Agodo, a town in Ewekoro Local Government area of Ogun State, Oba Ayinde Odetola. The arrest of the suspects, was disclosed in a release signed by the  Zonal Police Public Relations Officer, Zone 2 Command Headquarters, Onikan-Lagos, Hauwa Idris Adamu. Adamu said the arrest, followed a petition received by the Police over the gruesome murder of the monarch. “On the 28th January, 2022, a petition with the above caption was received from one Odetola Okuribido ‘m’ on behalf of the entire Okuribido Royal Family of Agodo town, Ewekoro Local Government Area of Ogun state. According to her, the petition read::”That on Monday 24th January 2022 *His Royal Highness Oba Odetola Olajide Ayinde*, the Olu of Agodo town in Ifo LGA. Ogun State was murdered by one Gbeminyi Sotade ‘m’ aka okon and his cohorts. The late Traditional Ruler went to his village on a portion of land to clear the grave side of his late brother, all of a sudden a group of hoodlums numbering about 50; led by one Gbeminiyi Sotade ‘m’ attacked him while 3 of his relatives were assaulted and machete. “The hoodlums pushed the Traditional Ruler into his Red Toyota Sienna SUV 2016 model with Registration number APP 55 GF while one Agbara drove the vehicle in the company of other hoodlums to a nearby forest, they poured petrol on him and the vehicle was finally set ablaze with the corpse locked in it. Adamu -Hauwa added that “the three persons who narrowly escaped death are: Alfa Wahab ‘m’ ; Deborah Onilere ‘f; Lydia Odetola ‘f’. “Eleven suspects have so far been arrested and they have confessed to their involvements in the crime and when asked why they attacked and murdered the traditional ruler; they claimed he was Jagungbale(land grabbers). Meanwhile, efforts are at top gear to arrest others at large. “The general public is hereby advised and warned to desist from taking law into their hands by involving in any form of criminality as whoever is caught up on the wrong side will face the full wrath of the law. “The AIG is assuring the citizens of Lagos and Ogun states that whosoever is involved in this dastardly act will be brought to book no matter how highly placed the person or group of persons are.” The release warned all hoodlums coming into Lagos and Ogun states to turn a new leaf or have a rethink of relocating out of the zone.