 Super Eagles forward, Victor Osimhen, last night ensured that Napoli stayed on the heels of Serie A leaders AC Milan with both goals in an eventful 2-1 win at Verona which moved his team second. The Nigerian player who is expected to lead Super Eagles’ attack in the World Cup Play-off against Ghana later this month, struck in each half as Luciano Spalletti’s men ensured they would be three points behind Milan come the end of the weekend. Inter who were one goal down at half time in Torino tied the game to end one-all. They are third, one point behind Napoli. Osimhen fired Napoli in front in the 14th-minute by thumping home a perfect header from Matteo Politano’s cross on a busy day in which he also forgot his protective face mask when coming out for the second half. At one point it looked as though Napoli would have to do without Osimhen for the best part of half an hour when the 23-year-old was down with a left shoulder problem following a clash with Koray Gunter. Osimhen was on the floor for two minutes and then treated pitchside while Spalletti was also deciding what to do with goalkeeper David Ospina, who just moments earlier had Federico Ceccherini land on his hand during a goalmouth scramble and looked in serious pain. That created a real problem for Spalletti who was also without Alex Meret with a fractured vertebra and on the bench only had young stoppers Davide Marfella and Hubert Idasiak, neither of whom have ever played a Serie A match. Both carried on however and Osimhen doubled Napoli’s lead in the 71st minute, meeting Giovanni Di Lorenzo’s low pull back with a neat first-time finish which left Lorenzo Montipo with no chance. The match looked done and dusted but there was still time for more drama as Marco Faraoni headed the hosts back into the game six minutes later following a delightful move and a pinpoint Adrien Tameze cross. However just as Igor Tudor’s team pushed for the draw Ceccherini was sent off for a second bookable offence which allowed a ruffled Napoli to close out the match. Ceccherini’s sending off infuriated Verona and captain Faraoni was also shown a red card after the final whistle following livid protests directed at referee Daniele Doveri. The Nigerian has now scored nine goals in 19 matches but 13 goals across all competitions in the on-going season.