 Blessing Ibunge in Port Harcourt Optometrists across the country have been charged to fight against quackery practice in the profession for better eye care delivery. The Registrar of Optometrists and Dispensing Opticians Registration Board of Nigeria (ODORBN), Prof. Ebele Uzodike, gave the charge yesterday, in her address at the annual general meeting of and conference of the Guild of Optometric Directors of Nigeria (GOODON), held in Port Harcourt, Rivers State. According to Prof. Uzodike, the optometrists can only achieve a total eradication of quacks in the profession if they unanimously fight the menace. She advised that in order to keep the standard of the practice in line with international best practices, there is a need to uphold the integrity of the profession at all times. Uzodike further disclosed that the last survey by Nigeria National Blindness and Visual Impairment revealed that over three million persons have visual challenges. She said, “According to the Nigeria National Blindness and Visual Impairment survey published in 2008, it is estimated that 1.13 million individuals aged 40 years and above are currently blind in Nigeria. “A further 2.7 million adults aged 40 years and above are estimated to have moderate visual impairment and an additional 400, 000 adults are severely visually impaired, children and adults not inclusive.” Similarly, the Rivers State Deputy Governor, Dr. Ipalibo Harry, has stressed that all the health sectors must work as a team for the public to respect and have confidence in them and avoid patronising quacks. Dr. Harry who represented the Governor, Nyesom Wike at the conference, urged the optometrists to always keep to the ethics of their profession. She disclosed that a loan facility was provided for private medical institutions in the state, adding that it was not political, it was done across the board for all those who needed to upgrade their facilities and their practice. Earlier in his remarks, the Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire, expressed hope that at the end of the conference, GOODON’s resolutions will bring to the fore issues and action steps that would drastically improve the landscape of optometric care in Nigeria, especially in the private sector. Represented by Prof. Dennis Allagoa, Ehanire further believed that the resolutions at the meeting would crystallise to affect the public sector healthcare delivery space. The minister urged that “This is therefore the moment for you to take the bull by the horns and champion the very best of techniques and technologies backed up with brilliant human resources in achieving your corporate goal as a guild.”