Okon Bassey in Uyo Just two months into the 2022 fiscal year, the Akwa Ibom State Governor, Mr. Udom Emmanuel, has approached the State House of Assembly to approve a supplementary budget of N45 billion. The supplementary budget as presented to the state assembly is comprised of N41 billion for recurrent expenditure and N4 billion for capital expenditure. The executive bill, which was sent by the governor, was titled “A Law to make Supplementary Provision for the Service of Akwa Ibom State Government for the year ending on December 31, 2022.” Speaking on the bill, the House Leader, Hon. Udo Kierian Akpan, of Oruk Anam State Constituency, said that “the bill seeks to make an increase in the budget size of the state that was passed last year from N586 billion to N631 billion, an increase of N45 billion from when it was approved last year.” Akpan explained that “the bill also seeks to complete some projects in the state and it is the determination of the state governor to see that these projects are commissioned within the tenure of his administration.” He said that the IPCs and contractors are in need of these funds in order to complete most projects like the Airport Projects, dualised roads in Etinan and Oruk Anam Local Government Areas, and other incomplete projects in the state. The house leader said: “The State Accountant General may when authorised so to do by warrants issued by the Governor of Akwa Ibom State in addition to the sums provided for in Section One of the Appropriation Law, 2022, pay of warrants not exceeding N41 billion from the Consolidated Revenue Fund and N4 billion from the Capital Development Fund.” He charged his colleagues to give the bill the attention it deserved for it to be passed speedily. Other members who spoke said that the supplementary appropriation was in the interest of the state, and noted that “the projects are very critical to the good of the state.” The bill was read the second time and referred to the House Committee on Appropriation and Finance to report back to the House within 24 hours. The Committee is expected to interface with relevant Ministries, Departments and Agencies for further contributions on the bill and legislative procedure before passage.