Society Watch Forty-four-year-old Folashade Okoya is a dazzling beauty. She is one of the few women whose beauty would make any full-blooded man drool. With four kids, she still has what many models will spend fortunes to possess: attractive curvature, come-hither-look and shape. Such is the power of her beauty. And it is all these rare qualities, in addition to her commanding dress sense, that usually makes the stunning beauty the cynosure of eyes at any public event. She is a showstopper any time, any day. The light-complexioned woman lives like a queen; and even when she attends a function with A-list society women, her style and fashion sense stand out. But if you think this is all there is about this stunningly beautiful woman, you are wrong. The dazzling beauty may seem fragile, but what is enveloped inside is a very intelligent and powerful woman. This is definitely what is not reported about the woman of substance. She has turned her husband’s company over since she assumed the position of Managing Director of the company in 2013. Society Watch gathered that the mother of four is a very hardworking woman; and she has used her ingenuity, shrewdness and brilliance to turn around the almost moribund Eleganza Industries. She has successfully re-jigged the company from its former declining state to a flourishing one that became a brand to beat in the sector. It was revealed that she had literally wrought a lot of wonders in the areas of restructuring, organising and saving costs through leadership at the new Eleganza Industrial City, which is being positioned as the number one manufacturing organisation in the whole of Africa. ‘’Since she assumed office as Managing Director, MD of Eleganza Industrial City, she has repositioned the company in a positive environment. The company had suffered major lapses in the past. However, the company has undergone major improvements and is now bigger, better structured. Under her leadership, Eleganza has new visions, a new mission and a culture aimed to propel the company in the direction of being the number one producer of all household items. Today I am proud to say that Eleganza is stronger and with higher quality products,” our source added. Many will recall that when the tall and beautiful lady got married to her billionaire husband, not many gave the marriage any chance of survival, given the age difference between them and how many celebrity marriages had crashed in the past. But 23 years later, the couple has shamed their critics, as the marriage has endured.