I am watching the video with shock. I am seeing a former First Lady, Mrs. Ebele Obiano, strut like she was tipsy towards Mrs. Bianca Ojukwu Dressed like a horny peacock with feathers all over the place, she was said to have asked Mrs Ojukwu what she was doing there. Taunting her and daring her to do her worse. She saw the worse  as Bianca was said to have sent her what Nigerians call a dirty slap, followed with an attempt to remove her wig. We thank God the attempt was not on her clothes because we would have been left with a First Lady completely demystified in her birthday suit. As expected, Mrs. Obiano retaliated, and there were a few seconds of undignified scramble between two ladies who are supposed to be role models in the society As I watched, I was cringing in shame. As she was pushed away, I saw her walking back to her seat, disheveled with hair scattered all over the place, and murmuring, ‘ashawo’ to her adversary. This I have heard is the latest in a very shameful career in public assault. I have seen a report where the Deputy Governor’s wife had been subjected to such treatment.  We have also heard that His Excellency, who just handed over, had also been a victim. Drivers and other domestic victims are said to be victims almost on a daily basis. That this behaviour has gone uncontrolled for this long is the failure of the state psychiatric institutions We do not need permission to harness and hold down these persons for treatment, no matter how highly placed. These persons can go and slap Pope if Pope, no greet, them well. What we are seeing here is not ordinary eye o. We thank God that the tenure is over before she goes and calls the Queen of England ashawo. What could have transpired at such an auspicious event where history was being recorded to warrant such barbaric behaviour beats my imagination These women are a disgrace to womanhood, and this video circulating is a clear example of how we should also be looking at these so-called potential first ladies as we elect our leaders. A first lady should be a mother to all. She must have grace and carry herself with the dignity that the role demands. Sad to say that our military leaders had far better first ladies. Can you imagine Maryann Babangida in this mode or Marwa’s first lady slapping anybody? Don’t let me even go this far, see Mrs. Onari Duke, see Dr. Sanwo-Olu,  See Mrs. El-Rufai, and you begin to wonder what kind of market women this one was inside State House. Education and upbringing follow join this thing. The saying that clothe a pig……. comes to mind. As for Bianca let me just say that I am terribly disappointed because she was married to one of the most elegant gentlemen ever.  A man of letters and even though fought a war, in his later years was able to show sweetness. Shebi, we all read the book, ‘Because I Am Involved’  where he extolled Bianca’s beauty. If only he knew that she would now turn into a ‘bolekaja’ beauty years after his departure This was quite shameful and a total disgrace to all Nigerian womanhood. Shame. Kai. I tire. Only in Nigeria.