 Olusegun Samuel in Yenagoa A youth group form Bayelsa West Senatorial District, the Bayelsa West Youth Leadership Forum (BWYLF), yesterday dismissed the purported zoning of the district’s senatorial seat, saying that the seat is open to anyone to contest. The grassroot socio-political group, which comprised of eminent youth leaders across Sagbama and Ekeremor Local Governments Areas, gave their opinion on the raging argument concerning the zoning of the Bayelsa West senatorial seat among Ekeremor and Sagbama Local Government Areas after a meeting yesterday at Sagbama town, headquarters of Sagbama LGA. The youth group in a communique issued after the meeting and signed by its Coordinator, Mr. Akeme Moses, and Secretary, Ms. Mercy Clement, said there was never a time leaders of the different political parties in the two local governments met and agreed on zoning, either by writing or verbal. The youth leaders argued that there is no organised zoning arrangement like that witnessed in other Senatorial Districts in Bayelsa State (Bayelsa East), which has consistently maintained and respected a zoning principle. “That the Bayelsa West Senatorial seat is open for anybody to contest, nonetheless, the youth leaders laid much emphasis on capacity over mediocrity. The group reiterated that every qualified son/daughter of both local government areas would be free to contest, for this has been the practice from the inception of the current democratic dispensation. “Therefore we call for every qualified adult citizens of the senatorial district to discard the naysayers who are calling for zoning and focus on issue based campaigns,” the communique read. The group, however, applauded the Governor of Bayelsa State, Mr. Douye Diri, led administration for its giant development strides and for making Bayelsa State a construction site. The youth leaders maintained that the governor has fulfilled his campaign promises of consolidating on the gains of his predecessor, Senator Seriake Dickson. The BWYLF equally hailed Dickson for the initiation and execution of the Sagbama/Ekeremor Road project that has today recorded historical moment of jubilation as cars drove to Ekeremor town. The group has also condemned in strong terms the unbearable security challenges at Sagbama town, headquarters of Sagbama Local Government Area and Bayelsa West senatorial District. The youth leaders called on security operatives to boost their security apparatus in the area, noting that the major duty of the security operatives is to protect live and prosperities. They also called on the Bayelsa State Livestock Management Committee to swing into action and curb the incessant disruption of farmlands by herders grazing in some communities in Ekeremor LGA.