 As part of its Love Always On CSR Initiative, Nigeria’s foremost mobile phones, accessories and televisions brand, itel, has donated educational materials such as libraries, schoolbooks, school bags, notebooks, and other writing materials to the  children of LGEA Primary School in Kaduna State to aid their love for learning. itel also partnered with Amazon Web Services (AWS), a provider of on-demand free cloud services for individuals and organizations, to honour International Women’s Day 2022 and celebrate the female students of Apostolic Secondary School, Anthony Village, Lagos State on March 8, 2022. The goal of the CSR event was to train and sensitize the students on the opportunities in tech available to women. itel’s gesture is dedicated to making sure consumers enjoy a better life, with a proven track record of selflessly donating to schools and low-income communities around the country, believing strongly that children are the future of society and should be treated with care and love. It therefore comes as no surprise that they support the education of children and have donated items once again to aid their learning efforts in Kaduna and Lagos. The august event in Kaduna had key itel staff, volunteers, teachers and over 200 students from the school in attendance. The teachers were also all smiles and could not believe the magnitude of itel’s gesture of care and love. One of the teachers said: “This is beyond what we expected. For itel to do something like this for our children and our school today, we are thankful.” The brand has always had a key focus on children’s educational growth and learning, and this is obvious in all the strides it has taken over the years since the inception of their Love Always On CSR initiative in 2016. All the female students, who attended the event had good things to say about itel and its CSR partner, Amazon Web Services. Another teacher stated that: “itel and Amazon Web Services have reminded my students that anyone can be who they want to be, where they want to be it, and whenever they want to be it. I am grateful for this and hope to see them again very soon.” The children of Bayeku Primary School in Ikorodu, Lagos State were not left out of the brand’s massive show of love in March. In partnership with Funsnax, a popular brand that makes cheeseballs and other fun children’s snacks, itel Nigeria donated school bags, school shoes, socks, duffel bags, stationery, food coolers, and other items to over 600 students in the school. This, under the brand’s Love Always On CSR initiative, is in line with the company’s mission to impact as many lives as possible in the communities they cater to, especially children. The children could not contain their joy as they came out en-masse to see what the itel brand had in store for them. One of the children, identified simply as Bimpe, said it was like a dream come true for them to get new shoes, new bags, new books, and new writing materials and snacks. Another student also stated that he had been praying for new shoes to wear to school, and itel came through for him with shoes, socks, and a brand-new school bag. “We are grateful to itel for coming to our school this day. They have helped parents and guardians ease the burden of providing educational materials for their children for a while and we thank them for it,” a teacher in the school said. “We have always had a soft spot for children at itel. With our Love Always On CSR initiative, we are especially dedicated to creating opportunities for them and supporting their dreams,” itel’s Marketing Manager, Oke Umurhohwo, said. “We plan to donate more libraries and educational items to schools around the country, because we believe this is what we should do as a responsible community brand.” itel keeps raising the bar on what brands should be and should do for society at large. What next do you think the brand will do? Let us find out together.