By Olusegun Samuel The Bayelsa State Police Command has dragged the Special Representative of the Bayelsa State Governor in Yenagoa Local Government Area, Hon. Obuma Ayaye, to court over alleged involvement in the issuance of dud cheque to offset a N2.5million loan secured since 2021. According to the prosecuting officer of the Police, S.C Njoku, in charge number YMC/82c/2022 before the Magistrate Court 12 in Yenagoa Magisterial district, requested for the remand of Ayaye, 45, claiming that it is reasonably suspected to have committed the offence of issuing dud cheques and fraud from July, 2021 to October, 2021. The police, in the grounds of claims, argued that though the investigation into the case is still ongoing, “the offence for which the defendant is arrested is a serious offence triable at the State High Court by virtue of the dishonored Cheques Act, 2004 and there is a reasonable and probable cause to remand the defendant for a period of 30days by which time information will be filed. “That the defendant fraudulently defrauded Mr. Ken Tonkmor, of the sum of N2.510 billion and issued dud cheques, which were dishonored on presentation at the bank. That the grant of the application is in the interest of justice.” But the Magistrate, Akata-Micheal Rachael Gwadei, declined to issue the order to remand him due to his status and the defendant present employment with the state government. She granted him bail but the police are preparing to file the case at the State High Court. Speaking with newsmen on the development, Mr. Ken Tonkmor, alleged that the accused after refusal to pay his debt, was traced to Benin City and arrested by the Police. He said: “When the accused was director general, Youth Mobilisation during former Governor Dickson’s tenure, he borrowed money and when he finished paying he borrowed another one. And he issued dud cheque and use his salary payment account as collateral.” Contacted on the development, the accused confirmed that he had a financial dealings with one Mr. Ken Tonkmor, but the claims of the allege issuance of dud cheque and fraud were untrue. “I have had several financial dealings with Tonkmor but this last one ran into hitches. The bank cheque issued to him is part of a requirement during money lending deals. You issue a cheque once you pay, the check is returned to you. It is not a dud cheque but a promisory note for access to your account.” “I have even discussed the issue with the governor and he has promised to intervene. There are plans to defray the money. But he (Tonkmor) got angry and and I reminded him that all other transactions were outside the police. “All financial dealings have had with Tonkmor has been based on friendship and the only dispute that can arise is when I deny that we did no not have financial dealings. I am ready to face the charges and tell the judge what transpired,” he narrated.