 The National Women Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Hon. Stella Okotete, has hinted that she and her team would embark on campus tours across the 36 states to Mobilise female students and women for the party to win the 2023 presidency and other electable positions. Okotete disclosed this yesterday at a surprise appreciative dinner organised for her by  the Progressive Young Women Forum (PYWF). Members of the forum took turns to eulogise the women leader for her leadership qualities and how she had managed to empower the women using the PYWF which she birthed. All the speakers at the event however unanimously appealed to her to contest the position of the National Women Leader of the party which has been zoned to the South-south region so she can continue with the good works she has been doing as the Women Representative of the Caretaker/Extra-ordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) . in order to open more doors for women politically and economically. In her remarks, the Interim President of the PYWF, Seun Bosede Osamaye, was emotional while she reeled out the positive impacts Okotete created and how she had funded the group in so many ways. She pleaded with her not to abandon the forum but to ensure continuity even after she hands over on March 26 at the National Convention. Same call was made by the National Secretary, Bilkisu Siddiq, Tonbra Ekiotenne – Bayelsa Representative and the National Publicity Secretary – Theresa Tekenah, who used the opportunity to speak about the forum. According to her, the National Women Representatives, believe the best way to close the gap of non-participation of women in politics is early attraction and active engagement. “Oketete, your leadership has demonstrated that women are capable of leading. Let me use the opportunity to appeal to you to continue to give us the needed support. Irrespective, of who becomes the next national women leader, you will always remain our matron, mentor, role model and adviser,” she said. Okotete was humbled  by the torrents of goodwill poured on her but ascribed all she have achieved both at the party level and at the Nigerian Export Import Bank (NEXIM) as grace of God the Almighty. She noted that she was eagerly awaiting the March 26 date of the convention to hand over to the next women leader, adding that she was already exhausted and needed to rest and allow other women take the front seat and also empower others. She, however, politely stated that she won’t be contesting but looks forward to an opportunity to lead the entire Nigerian women and also serve as a member of the Presidential election council so she would play active roles in mobilising women across the 774 local councils in Nigeria, which will in turn afford women the opportunity to negotiate their deals politically for better representations at both local, state and federal levels. Okotete was also decorated as a full indigene of the FCT by the members led by Hajiya Farida Odangi and other FCT members, with the event climaxing with a presentation of a gigantic portrait of her aesthetically beautiful. Other dignitaries at the event were Barrister Peace Oyanbo, Hon. Ginika Tor, Ambassador Cynthia Agbo, Jon Uju Onwudiwe, Hon Halima Hassan Tukur among others.