Femi Solaja   The Super Eagles of Nigeria are at the verge of another World Cup appearance. Should the Eagles prevail tomorrow, Nigeria will feature in her seventh World Cup in Qatar.Unlike in the previous two qualifiers for 2014 and 2018, it has been anything but a smooth ride for the Super Eagles. In the course of the 2022 qualifiers, the Super Eagles, on field, lost their admirable record of 36 unbeaten streak at the World Cup qualifying series.Before the shocking 0-1 loss to Central African Republic in Lagos last October, the last time the Nigerian side lost a World Cup qualifying game was way back in 20 June 2004 against Angola in Luanda. They went 38 matches without a loss, even though the result of their last qualifiers against Algeria, which ended 1-1, was annulled owing to Nigeria’s fielding of an ineligible Shehu Abdulahi. The qualifying series for 2022 took a dramatic twist after the Eagles lost 0-1 to unrated Central African Republic in what incidentally, was the first ever international meeting between both countries.That was the beginning of the end for the unduly elongated coaching tenure of Gernot Rohr. Although his team managed to reverse the score-line in the return leg at the adopted home ground of Central African Republic in Douala, Cameroon, it was clear that Rohr was living on borrowed time.The last group match, a home duel with Cape Verde was the last straw that broke the camel’s back. Needing to just avoid a loss, Rohr’s team laboured throughout the game, despite getting a dream opening, scoring in the very first minute of the match.The mantle has now fallen on former international, Austin Eguavoen, who incidentally as the coach of the national team, lost his role to a German, Berti Vogts in 2007.Taking over from another German, Rohr, Eguavoen, seems to have had his ‘vengeance’. But what should we expect?Austin Eguavoen is assisted by fellow ex-international, Emmanuel Amuneke as they prepare the Super Eagles for the decisive encounter with Ghana Black Stars.The first match comes up in Kumasi on Friday. This will be Nigeria’s 111st World Cup qualifying match. Coincidentally, it was against Ghana that Nigeria debuted in the World Cup qualifying series when they met in Accra on 28 August 1960.At the time, Nigeria lost 4-1. But time has changed and Nigeria Super Eagles have since taken the commanding role when it comes to World Cup qualification.As at the end of the group stage of the qualifiers for the 2022 World Cup, no African side has racked up as many qualifying victories as Nigeria, whose overall record of 62 wins in 110 games equates to a win rate of 56.4%.This record is the benchmark for Eguavoen and Amuneke as the Eagles target the ultimate goal of making it to Qatar 2022.This will be Eguavoen’s second attempt at qualifying the Super Eagles for the World Cup. At the closing stages for the Germany 2006 qualification, he was drafted to take over from Christian Chukwu.He achieved some good results, but they were not enough to steer the team to Germany. When he took over from Chukwu in 2005, though a defender in his playing days, he showed he had an attacking philosophy.The Super Eagles under his watch scored 10 goals in two matches and became the only coach of Nigeria to have led a team to beat Algeria at home.Such offensive inclination had seen his side becoming the only one with a 100 per cent outing at the group stage of the Africa Cup of Nations 2021. Playing against Ghana is not a strange assignment for him considering that his team had beaten Ghana before at the 2006 Africa Cup of Nations in Port Said, Egypt.With good attacking option as well as solid defensive strategy, Eguavoen’s side should be able to overcome Ghana and qualify for the World Cup, a feat that will make him and Amuneke, the third set of Nigerians to achieve World Cup qualification feat after those of Amodu Shaibu and Keshi combination in 2002 and Keshi in 2014.The decisive match will air on SuperSport on DStv Premier League channel 203 and GOtv channel 38. Tuesday, March 29, 2022. From 6pm Nigerian time.