 James Emejo The Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Mrs. Maryam Katagum,  has inaugurated a 14-member technical committee on the development of a roadmap and operational framework for Halal certification in Nigeria. The minister noted that there is huge potential in the Halal sub-sector, with the global market valued at about $2.6 trillion. She said Nigeria had not been able to take advantage of huge market to boost foreign earnings, increase investment and adopt the concept to contribute to the growth and development of the economy. According to her, countries including Morocco and Malaysia are already benefiting from the Halal economy, with Morocco exporting to over 23 countries and Malaysia earning about $7 billion in exports. Katagum, at the ceremony,  however,  pointed out that the Halal concept is currently at its embryonic stage in Nigeria adding that it is largely been uncoordinated, with lack of synergy between relevant institutions,  leading to absence of uniformity in instituting Halal standards in the country,  thus,  unable to tap into the global market. She said the development informed the decision of the ministry to proactively establish a committee to address the issue, by studying the various models being used by other successful countries and developing a tailor-made Strategic Plan and Operational Framework for Nigeria. She said the success of the committee will no doubt, stimulate investment across the country’s agricultural sector which would lead to increased productivity and chart a sustainable course towards food security, generate employment; and create wealth for Nigerians. The committee is chaired by Nour Sani Hanga, Chairman Technical Committee on Halal from Halal Standard Development Trust (HASDAT) and member of the Nigeria Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs. Its terms of reference is to develop a work-plan for the technical committee; develop the operational and strategic framework for Nigeria’s Halal certification process; identify all existing Halal certification bodies and ensure uniformity in their modus operandi; identify international linkages and partnerships for the development of the Nigerian Halal industry; and develop advocacy and sensitization strategies for the Halal industry in Nigeria among others. The minister said, “There is clearly an increasing demand for Halal certified products globally, especially, amongst the large Muslim population in the Middle East, North Africa, South Africa, South Asia, the former Soviet Union and China, which presents a lucrative chain for the food market. “As at today, the global consumer base of Halal products is estimated to be about 1.9 billion Muslims across 112 countries, and the Halal market is estimated to be worth trillions of US Dollars. “Nigeria’s Muslim population is estimated at about 52 per cent of the nation’s population and adherents of Islam are usually selective in making Halal choices when it comes to lifestyle and product consumptions. “Aside from the Islamic population, there is a huge number of people around the world that also prefer to consume Halal products based on healthy lifestyle choices.” Katagum said countries around the world have made it easier for such consumers to make easy selections at supermarkets; shops adding thay Nigeria should not be left out. She added that the Halal market remained a huge and profitable segment of the economy, stressing that “We cannot ignore the importance of assuring our local and international consumers that our food and beverage products are Halal certified and comply with Islamic Law.” She added that such certifications would give products a boost in local and international markets. However, Hanga while responding on behalf of other members of the committee, expressed appreciation for the opportunity to serve and sought the relevant support from the government to enable it deliver on the task.