 Adibe Emenyonu in Benin-city A coalition of civil society groups in Benin-city, Edo State, yesterday held a demonstration against the state government over the bill against open grazing in the state which is currently before the state House of Assembly. They alleged that certain provisions of the bill would make the government to cede part of the lands in the state for cattle rearing. In a statement signed by, one of the groups, Edo Civil Society Organisations (EDOCSO), interim Chairman and Secretary, Bishop Osadolor Ochei and Keshi St. Lawrence respectively, said a public hearing should be initiated by the House of Assembly to get inputs from the public, expressing concern on the percentage of communal or local government lands to be acquired for ranching which is between 10 and 20 per cent by the state government. The statement said: “We view this arrangement to be in line with the federal government’s plan in the establishment of National Livestock Transformation programme codenamed RUGA in various states that want to key in. Edo State is believed to have keyed in after the meeting the state Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, had with President Muhammadu Buhari on same matter.” In the same vein, another group, Network of Civil Societies Organisation of Nigeria (NOCSON), also visited the state Assembly on what it termed fact-finding mission to get clarifications on the same issue. Receiving the groups, Speaker of the state House of Assembly, Mr. Marcus Onobun, said the Assembly would not make any law that would be detrimental to the well-being of the people of the state. He said: “We cannot take any position outside that of the people. “As we all know, we have been faced with farmers/herders clash, and not only in Edo State. Edo people want the anti-grazing bill passed so that our people, particularly farmers, will have a sense of relief and have a fresh breath.” Onobun further stated that: “To make issue very clear, we have been inundated with false reports, and we have seen on social media an alleged composition of a certain percentage of land being ceded to the people. “I want to clearly state that it is not true; It is not part of the bill we received, it is not part of what we are treating and it is not going to be part of what we are going to consider.” Also, in a statement issued by the Secretary to State Government (SSG), Mr. Osarodion Ogie, he said the bill had not been passed, and urged the civil society and members of the public in the state to suggest their inputs instead of organising street protests that could cause breach of public peace.