 Netcore Cloud, a leading interactive marketing solution provider and Axon analytics, a creative digital agency in Nigeria have stated that their joint venture has offered top-quality digital marketing services to customers in Nigeria in the last five years. According to the company’s Regional Vice President- Africa, Nisham Chhabra, Netcore cloud is a global Martech product company that helps B2C brands create exceptionally seamless digital experiences for customers that help in acquisition, engagement and retention. Backed by marketing automation and personalization, it has enabled four of the largest banks in Nigeria to develop a digital-first approach for their customers across email, mobile apps and social media. He said: “While banking was already moving towards digitalization, the last 18 months of the lockdown has accelerated its pace further. Millions of Nigerians have grown comfortable with the idea of banking from the comfort of their homes. Identifying this emerging need for digital experiences, Netcore Cloud enables marketers to go digital smoothly and create exceptional consumer experiences. Armed with a full-stack growth platform for marketing, product management, growth management, and customer engagement, Netcore Cloud identifies large pools of customer data and transforms it into valuable insights in real-time to fuel every aspect of a business’s digital growth”. On his part, Netcore’s Client Success Manager, Chukwudi Nwokike, explained further that for over two decades, Netcore Cloud has been the trusted partner and a leading player in creating smooth digital experiences and solutions for Banking and Financial institutions around the globe. Today, the company stands tall in AI-powered customer retention by the largest banks in Nigeria. Several Nigerian banks, he said, have successfully delivered unique digital consumer journeys with Netcore Cloud in the last five years since the partnership with Axon Analytics began. As a result, he said thousands of Nigerians have been benefiting from superior banking at the touch of a few buttons. While analyzing the benefits of both company’s partnership to the Nigerian digital and marketing communications industry, he said that Axon Analytics’ strong connections within the country ensures that Netcore is uniquely primed to pivot into new services and markets quickly and has shown a deft ability to expand into adjacent markets such as Insurance, Fintech, Travel, and Logistics, as well as E-commerce, recording massive successes in a short time. “The partnership between both visionary companies have quickly cemented their position as the established face of digital business solutions and paved the way for omnichannel marketing for key Nigerian sectors and industries, ”he expressed.