Gilbert Ekugbe The Technologies for African Agricultural Transformation (TAAT), a flagship programme of the African Development Bank (AfDB), has announced plans to boost Africa’s food production by producing 100 million tonnes of food every year through the deployment and the use of smart agricultural technologies. The move, according to the multilateral agency, is expected to cut food import by half, noting that Africa currently imports about N47 billion worth of food with hopes that an additional hundred million tonnes of food will cut food import by 50 per cent. Speaking at AfDB’s maiden edition of TAAT investors forum in African agriculture targeted to boost food production and sufficiency in the continent that was held virtually in Abidjan, Cote D’ Ivoire, the Director, Agriculture and Agro-Industry, AfDB, Mr. Martin Fregene, observed that TAAT is the focus of the bank’s number two priority which is Feed Africa, even as he described it as a bold and ambitious effort to raise food production on the continent by hundred million tonnes of food every year through reaching forty million farmers with the best available production technologies to double their yields. “We estimate that that additional hundred million tones of food produced every year could reduce hunger by 80 percent. Today, Africa has about 280 million people. If you just take a rule of thumb that an average African eats a tonne of food every year, so hundred million additional tonnes of food will reduce hunger by 80 per cent,” he said. He, however, noted that the private sector would become a very important player in many African countries where there are fragile governments. Speaking on why the private sector was so important, and why a lot of effort should be put in to attract the private sector into TAAT, Fregene pointed out that economic motivation drives the private sector adding that for government, whether things happen or not, they get paid but for the private sector, if they don’t have a product that the market accepts, they don’t earn a salary. “So, we really need a private sector to create an efficient, profitable environment so that we can attract more finance and the private sector, like you all know, helps to develop value chains. You have Babanguna’s Farming Company up in Kaduna with almost two hundred thousand farmers and provides seeds, provides mechanization and then, provides access to market and they do all that by access to finance both within and outside the country,” he said. He went on to posit that efforts should be geared towards protecting intellectual property as a means to create incentives for the private sector to get involved. According to him, “we also need to have license agreement on plant varieties respected. What do I mean by IP? When you develop a variety, it’s a technological propriety; it has been developed by you spending some time and investment. So, you must be able to get back returns on that investment and to do that, there has to be rules and regulations and laws that actually protect whatever a private sector company is pushing out there in the market. Nobody can use it without signing a license agreement.”