 Emameh Gabriel in Abuja Imo State Governor, Hope Uzodinma, yesterday  insisted that Yobe State Governor, Mai Mala Buni, who is currently on medical leave will return as Chairman of the National Caretaker Committee of the All Progressive Congress (APC), noting that every activity currently going on at the party’s national secretariat were still being sanctioned by Mai Buni. Uzodinma ,who was a guest  on Channels Television programme, Politics Today, said that he was not aware of any directive given by President Muhammadu Buhari to remove Mai Buni as the party caretaker chairman as narrated by Kaduna State Governor, Nasir El-Rufai, last week. Niger State Governor, Abubakar Sani Bello, had last Monday stormed the APC national secretariat and took over affairs of the party in what many had considered to be a palace coup. Following the incident, Kaduna State Governor Nasir El-Rufai confirmed on a live TV interview that it was the end of Buni’s reign as caretaker chairman of the party and would be returning as the governor of Yobe State on the instruction of President Buhari. “Buni is gone, the secretary is gone. Governor Bello is in charge and he has the backing of President Muhammadu Buhari and 19 governors. Buni can only return as governor of Yobe but never as chairman of our party,” he said. However, contrary to El-Rufai’s claims, Uzodinma, said Buni was still in charge of the party’s affairs and would return as caretaker chairman, noting that the purported removal of Buni was in the first place illegal and could not have been sanctioned by President Buhari, whom he said was a true democrat. He said: ‘‘The chairman of Caretaker Extra Ordinary Committee for Convention is Alhaji Mai Mala Buni the Governor of Yobe State. Let me tell you how this thing works. The business of politics is more serious than some people think. He is the chairman of the party and he is there by the mandate of the National Executive Committee (NEC) and he travelled for medicals. Governor Bello is acting for him for now. As soon as he comes back, he will resume. ‘‘It is the decision of NEC, and once NEC has taken a decision, nobody can change it unless NEC meets again to make another decision. But for now, until NEC meets. That is why I am not surprised that INEC wrote that letter that he was the one to sign. He is really the one to sign because before he is removed, there must be another meeting of NEC to rescind the decision. But when asked about the directive given to APC governors by the President to remove Buni as alleged by El-Rufai, he said he was not aware of such directive because the APC is governed by internal rules and procedures. ‘‘When I leave here, I will stop at El-Rufai’s house to ask him because I was not there’’, he said. ‘‘APC is the ruling party. We are driven by rules. The constitution of the APC is binding on all of us who are members and that is what we would follow. The Mr. President I know is a man that believes in the rule of law. I cannot see President Muhammadu Buhari supporting anything that is illegal, anything that is inconsistent with due process. ‘‘I can tell you that all the things that are going on in the party’s secretariat are going on with the knowledge of Mai Malam Buni and as soon as he comes back, he would take over the affairs of the party’’, noted the Imo State Governor who said it would be unfair to say that Governor Buni was not willing to conduct the convention. ‘‘In our last meeting with Buni, he outlined all these activities and also informed us that he would be travelling for his medical and while he is there, Governor Bello is going to be there to do all that. The decision to swear in state chairmen was taken in the meeting and all of us were there. On the crisis in Imo State, he said: ‘‘I have said it times without number, I have publicly invited all my brothers and sisters, political leaders, business leaders, who for whatever reason, knowingly or unknowingly I have offended to come back. I am not taking anything personal but to look at the larger interest of our people and the development of the state. ‘‘I have been doing quarterly stakeholders meetings since I assumed office as the governor of Imo State. It is to create a platform for stakeholders to express themselves, air their views, disappointment and give their recommendations in the areas we have not done well. Asked if he had extended the same olive branch to Senator Rochas Okorocha, he said: ‘‘Of course! Several, privately and publicly. But you see, I don’t want to adapt to the antics of a village woman or man who wants to dance naked by the market square. This platform is a public platform. But I know that I have invited every stakeholder. ‘Okorocha is my brother by the way. You have to know that the seat he occupies now, is the seat I left in the Senate. All I am asking, even if I have done anything that has not gone down very well to him or any other person, forgive and forget all these, come let’s develop the state. On properties seized from Okorocha,  Uzodinma explained: ‘‘There is a judicial panel of inquiries set up by my predecessor and a white paper was approved and the matter has been implemented and if there is anything that was done in error, it is an opportunity for, noting that it was not his duty to act but due process should be allowed.