 Kingsley Nwezeh in Abuja and Rebecca Ejifoma The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission EFCC has arrested 42-year-old Osondu Igwilo, a suspect wanted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) since 2018 for alleged $100 million fraud among other crimes. Already the United States has hailed the Nigerian anti-graft agency for the feat. Also,  the  Lagos Zonal Command of the EFCC has arraigned one Kolawole Adedayo Erinle alongside his firm, Rinde-Remdex Nigeria Limited before Justice Oluwatoyin Taiwo of a Special Offences Court sitting in Ikeja, Lagos. Erinle was arraigned on an amended three-count charge bordering on conspiracy, retention of proceeds of criminal conduct, and obtaining money under false pretence to the tune of $1,410,000. In a statement yesterday the spokesman of EFCC, Wilson Uwujaren said Igwilo was allegedly the leader of a criminal network that perpetrated an advance-fee scheme around the world, and laundered the proceeds through US-based bank accounts. The prime suspect was caught alongside Okafor Nnamdi Chris, Nwodu Uchenna Emmanuel, and John Achukwu at a studio in the Sangotedo area of Lagos. Their crime include wire fraud conspiracy, money laundering, and aggravated identity theft  $100 million. The suspects, according to the FBI, allegedly perpetrated a scheme involving false promises of investment funding, impersonating United States bank officials in person and via the internet. According to the EFCC, “Investigation revealed that those who fell victims of the suspects’ criminal activities were asked to make certain payments before they could receive their funding.” Proceeds were said to be laundered through American bank accounts and diverted to the alleged culprits in Nigeria. Following their arrest, the EFCC noted that five houses located in choice areas of Lagos were recovered from Igwilo. The suspects will soon be charged to court. The United States (US) have applauded EFCC for arresting Igwilo. “Prior to their arrest, Igwilo and his associates were allegedly involved in an advance-fee scheme that involved false promises of investment funding by iindividuals who impersonated some United States of America, USA, bank officials in person and over the internet,” according to the anti-corruption agency “Following an investigation, it was discovered that those who were victims of the suspects’ criminal activities were required to make certain payments before receiving their funds.” “It was also revealed that the scheme’s proceeds were allegedly laundered through US bank accounts before being returned to the alleged perpetrators in Nigeria.” “As a result of a criminal complaint filed against him in the United States District Court, Houston, Texas in December 2016. “Igwilo was placed on the FBI watch list.” Mr. Igwilo’s five houses in desirable areas of Lagos have been reclaimed, according to the EFCC. “The suspects will be charged in court soon,” the statement said. Meanwhile,  Erinle is alleged to have engaged in Business Email Compromise (BEC) fraud to defraud his victim. The fraudulent case, which was reported to the EFCC by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), alleged that in 2019, Kansas City University of Medicine and Biosciences (KCUMB), transferred $1,412,509  to an account believed to be that of a contractor. Investigation into the alleged crime, however, revealed that the defendant benefited the fund, which was transferred in two tranches to a company in Nigeria. The defendant on receipt of the fund, disbursed it to his wife, mother and cronies. The proceeds were further traced to fixed deposits, assets; landed and vehicular, that he purchased. He pleaded “not guilty” to the charges. Thereafter, the prosecuting counsel, T.J. Banjo, prayed the court for a trial date and for the remand of the defendant at a correctional facility. Defence counsel, Yinka Farombi, who informed the court of the bail application for his client, however, prayed the court to remand him at the EFCC custody pending hearing of the application. The application for his remand at the EFCC custody, was, however, opposed to by the prosecution on the grounds that after arraignment the “right place of custody is the correctional centre”. Thereafter Justice Taiwo adjourned till March 15, 2022 for “hearing of bail application” and ordered that the defendant be remanded in EFCC custody till then.