 Sunday Okobi The West Africa Automotive Show (WAAS), Nigeria’s largest automotive parts show, will return to Lagos on May 17 to 19 with more than 100 exhibitors from Nigeria and around the world showcasing the latest developments and products in the auto parts and services sector to more than 3,000 visitors from across West Africa. According to the organisers, while the event will focus on local businesses, there will be a highly international flavour with overseas representation from more than 20 countries. These include India, the United Kingdom, Ireland, Thailand, Indonesia, Nigeria, Pakistan, the UAE, Poland, the United State of America, and Turkey. The show, which will take place at the Landmark Centre on Victoria Island, Lagos, is endorsed by the National Automotive Design and Development Council (NADDC), and its founding partner, Africa’s largest auto spare part market, Auto Spare Parts and Machinery Dealers Association (ASPMDA). WAAS is organised by BtoB Events, which also runs the highly popular Food and Beverage West Africa show (taking place in June) and Beauty West Africa show (in November). The Managing Director of the WAAS organiser, BtoB Events, Jamie Hill, in a statement issued yesterday noted that he was looking forward to seeing the regional automotive sector come together again. Hill in a statement said: “We are delighted to be able to bring the long-anticipated return of the West Africa Automotive Show back to Nigeria for its first post-pandemic edition. “Demand for exhibition space has been very high, which reflects the strong desire from the market to get back to business and make us for lost time. The impact of the pandemic on international trade was huge, so the exhibition will act as a perfect platform for businesses to find new suppliers from around the world and suppliers to find new customers across the region. “Visitors can also pre-register for WAAS at https://www.westafricaautomotive.com/pre-register/ which will give them free entry. Otherwise, there will be a nominal administration fee of N1,000 for non-registered attendees on the door.”