Ademola Orunbon The President, Ogun State Customary Court of Appeal (OGCCA), Justice Mobolaji Ojo, has said Customary Court is committed to prompt and cheaper justice delivery to the people. Justice Ojo stated this at the commissioning of the Grade II Customary Court, Odosenlu, Ijebu North East Local Government Area, adding that the court was designated to cover the areas within its jurisdiction, such as Odoregbe, Itamarun, Padi, Igede, Egenolu, Idofin, Eruwon, amongst others. He noted that apart from the facilitation of Customary Courts building in some parts of the State, the present administration had also embarked on a gradual process of repositioning all Customary Court systems, as well as employment of more staff to strengthen its workforce. “The Grade II Customary Court Odosenlu is competent to adjudicate in proceedings for a declaration of title to land, as far as the land in dispute is situated in a non-urban area and is subject to the customary right of occupancy within its area of jurisdiction, as well as matters of dissolution of marriage contract under native law and custom”, Ojo said. He stated that the court had introduced periodic capacity building programmes such as workshops, seminars, as well as retreats for the President, members and other officers for better service delivery, imploring designated communities to approach customary courts for issues within its jurisdiction. In his address, the Olu of Odosenlu-Alaro, Oba Adedotun Odusanya said the inauguration of the court would foster easy access to justice, saying “justice delayed is justice denied”. Oba Odusanya commended the State Governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun, the Chief Judge, Hon. Justice Mosunmola Dipeolu, the President of the Customary Court and the entire team, expressing hope that additional projects that will contribute to the development of the community will soon emerge. In her remarks, the Chief Registrar, Customary Court, Mrs. Oriyomi Shofowora, appreciated the Governor for providing amenities required for the comfort and functionalities of the courts which in no doubt would bring justice closer to the people.