 Emmanuel Addeh in Abuja The new National Executive Committee of the International Federation of Women Lawyers (FIDA) yesterday stated that the group was planning to build a modern shelter for victims of gender-based violence in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). Speaking in Abuja at the weekend, Country President of the group, Mrs Amina Agbaje, who  also doubles as International Vice President of the organisation, explained that the shelter, a one-stop-shop , will include courtrooms and other facilities. According to the FIDA leader, a shelter for victims of gender-based violence became necessary to enhance speedy dispensation of justice and guarantee safety and comfort of victims.“What we desire to do is to have a one-stop-shop shelter that is very big. We intend to locate it in Abuja. Let me also add that while some of our branches have functional shelters, they are relatively small compared to the one we are proposing to build at the national in Abuja. “It is going to be a centre where all the activities related to gender-based violence can be treated without any stakeholders dissipating energy on going from one location to another. It is a centre where all issues ranging from case reporting, investigation to prosecution and keeping victims safe in one location.“As a group that has a bias for gender-based violence, the focus of the current leadership is to unveil a shelter for victims of gender-based violence,” she stated. Agbaje added that most of the time when victims of gender-based violence are rescued, there’s usually no place to keep them before things are sorted out, noting that FIDA was in dire need of a facility that is solely owned by the organisation.The association noted that what currently obtains is that those affected by violence are first rescued before the search for accommodation, insisting that it was impacting negatively on the group’s work and interventions. “So, our focus is to be able to deliver to the organisation a befitting shelter that has a courtroom, witness box, accommodation and facilities that can be a safe home for women who are facing gender-based violence,” she said.As part of the efforts aimed at decongesting correctional centres across the country,  Agbaje disclosed that FIDA Nigeria, has been conducting legal clinics for female detainees and offering to either offset minor fines or take up matters that need legal representations free of charge. “We conduct legal clinics in correctional centres that have female inmates. Legal clinic means interviewing the women on the facts of their case and those that have minor fines to be paid. “We often offer to offset such as an organisation. Then the ones that need follow up in the court, we do the follow up by giving them representations on a pro bono basis,” she pointed out. The new executive members are: Evelyn Membere-Asimiea, who emerged Deputy Country Vice-President; Eliana Martins, who is the National Secretary while Beatrice Awah was voted Assistant National Secretary. Also, Chineze Obiano emerged the National Treasurer; Olunbunmi Niyi-Arajuwa emerged as the National Financial Secretary; Christiana Adejumo is the new Publicity Secretary and Rhoda Tyoden emerged Ex-Officio member.Furthermore, FIDA Nigeria, reiterated its continued passion and excellence in preserving the rights and ensuring the welfare of women and children in Nigeria.