PREMIER LEAGUE  Manager Thomas Tuchel yesterday criticised a section of Chelsea supporters who sang owner Roman Abramovich’s name during a minute’s applause for Ukraine before their 4-0 win over Burnley at Turf Moor. Four goals in 22 second-half minutes helped Chelsea cruise to victory in their first Premier League game since owner Abramovich said he will sell the club. Abramovic announced his decision to sell the club amid heavy scrutiny following Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. The Russian billionaire has been at Chelsea for 19 years since taking the club over in July 2003, during which time they have won 19 major trophies. Some Chelsea fans chanted  Abramovich’s name throughout the game, and were booed by Burnley fans. “It’s not the moment to do this,” Chelsea manager Tuchel said. “If we show solidarity we show solidarity and we should do it together. “We take the knee together. If an important person from our club or another club unfortunately dies we have a minute of respect. “It is not the moment to give other messages. It’s the moment to show respect. We want to do this. As a club we need our fans to commit to this minute of applause. “We do it for Ukraine and there is no second opinion about this situation. They have our thoughts and our support and we should stand together.” As well as the pre-match applause, banners, cards, pennants and TV screens in the blue and yellow halves of the Ukrainian flag proclaiming ‘Football Stands Together’ were displayed at Premier League games on Saturday. Abramovich, 55, is alleged to have strong ties to Russian President Vladimir Putin, which he has denied. Chelsea had plenty of possession in the first half, but little cutting edge; Nick Pope was barely tested in the Burnley goal. Almost immediately after the restart, though, James edged into a crowded area and kept his cool to fire emphatically across Pope. Chelsea were soon three up and in total control. First, Pulisic’s pinpoint cross was guided home expertly by Havertz, before the German bundled James’ cross over the line. Pulisic got in on the act 21 minutes from time, rounding off what turned out to be a comfortable afternoon for Chelsea. RESULTS Leicester 1-0 Leeds Aston Villa 4-0 S’thampton Burnley 0-4 Chelsea Newcastle 2-1 Brighton Norwich 1-3 Brentford Wolves 0-2 Cry’Palace Liverpool 1-0 West Ham TODAY Watford v Arsenal (3pm) Man City v Man Utd (5:30pm) SERIE A (8:45pm) Napoli v AC Milan