 Adibe Emenyonu in Benin City Seplat Energy Plc, an indigenous energy company and its partners, the Nigerian Petroleum Development Company (NPDC) have awarded certificates to a total of 220 comprising 214 teachers and six Chief Inspectors of Education in Edo and Delta States under the Seplat Teachers Empowerment Programme (STEP). The event was the second edition of the programme which was aimed at improving the standard of education in Nigeria especially Seplat Energy’s host states and communities. Over the years, Seplat Energy had made significant impacts with critical initiatives focused on providing quality education for states of its operations and the country. To consolidate its achievements on Sustainability Development Goal 4 (SDG4) for inclusive and equitable quality education, the Company introduced STEP, a customised training programme for secondary school teachers.It is a three-month intensive training programme that equips teachers with tools to teach STEAM (Science, Technology, Engineering, Arts and Mathematics). The programme was introduced as a  model of learning to secondary schools in Delta and Edo States in order to promote creative thinking, allow for higher student engagement, and offer a well-rounded education where STEAM are equal contributors to the process of learning. As part of efforts to commemorate the 2022 certificate presentation ceremony last weekend, Seplat Energy hosted the Seplat JV Education Roundtable with the theme: Harnessing the Role of Technology In Nigeria’s Education Sector. The round table STEP Certificate Awards Ceremony also featured educational experts and professionals in a highly engaging panel session.Among them were the keynote speaker, Prof. Fabian Ajogwu SAN, an Independent Non-Executive Director at Seplat Energy; the Minister of State for Education, Chukwuemeka Nwajiuba; one a special guest of honour, was ably represented by Mrs. Muna Onuzo-Adetona, a Special Adviser to the minister. The panelists comprised Mr. Yinka Akibu of the United Nations Development Programme; Mr. Kehinde Osinaike of the Federal Ministry of Education; Sijuade Idowu Tiamiyu of the State Universal Basic Education Board Lagos State; and Ini Abimbola of the Association of Sustainability Professionals of Nigeria while the session was moderated by Dr. (Hon) Mories Atoki. In his address, Ajogwu said: “Education is a collective responsibility,” noting that what Seplat Energy is doing is noble and commendable and urged other corporate bodies should also be invited to emulate SeplatHe said spending on education gives future returns than subsiding consumption, adding that, “Seplat Energy believes that empowering teachers is the first point to awakening education and education has a cost. What we have done is to take part of that cost. “The government organisations have roles to play as well as other organisations and stakeholders. We should acknowledge this cost and invest in it” Education has a cost, and Seplat energy has written the cheque”.In his remarks, Edo State Deputy Governor, Mr. Philip Shaibu, said, “Education via technology will promote children to be global competitors, and this can only happen through adequate knowledge of technology. I congratulate Seplat Energy on this initiative and Edo State will continue to partner with the company on education.” Also, in her address, Seplat Director, External Affairs and Sustainability, Dr. Chioma Nwachuku, said: “The STEP programme is important because it plays a key role in the socio-economic growth of the country. It supports the attainment of Quality education which is #SGD4. The objective is to take STEAM education to the teachers. We encourage the teachers to transmit their experience with this programme to other colleagues in the sector and the students who are Nigeria’s future.“Seplat Energy takes the STEP initiative seriously. This year we have trained over 200 teachers and state CIEs. The programme is designed to ensure monitoring and evaluation of the teachers even after the training and graduation. This ensures sustainability of the programme. “The objectives of STEP are to: To train secondary school teachers on skills, innovations, and technologies for deploying STEAM to deliver tutelage better to the students; provide and connect teachers to a collection of STEAM resources to enable them to understand, apply and innovate; and provide schools with resources to enable them to provide the right environment for STEAM implementation to enable students engage in the interdisciplinary nature of STEAM.”