 Nseobong Okon-Ekong writes that the leadership of the Peoples Democratic Party has been commended by various stakeholders for the comparative ‘friendly’ prices of nomination forms for aspirants into various offices who wish to contest on the party’s platform Many stakeholders in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) are applauding the National Chairman of the party, Dr. Iyorchia Ayu for the relative ‘friendly’ prices of nomination forms for aspirants into various offices who wish to contest on the platform of the PDP. Ayu, an original member of the G34 group, led by the late former Vice President of Nigeria, Dr. Alex Ekwueme, that fought the military to a standstill to herald this enduring season of democracy is being given a standing ovation, particularly in the states, where the bulk of contestants for National Assembly and state houses of assembly will come from. Commending the Founding Fathers of party, which includes Ayu, Prince Muhammed Kadade Suleiman, PDP, National Youth Leader, said they, “Envisioned a Nigeria with clear roadmap to development and sustainability. The bulk of that vision reflected in the array of individuals voted and appointed into office 23 years ago. Most of our leaders today were young first timers (23 years ago), who were given opportunity to serve in public office and thrived in their respective portfolios.” The PDP’s NEC approved a 50 per cent reduction in nomination fees for youths aged 25 to 30 years for various elective positions. The party’s National Publicity Secretary, Debo Ologunagba, announced the party’s decision on the costs of its nomination forms to elective positions at its National Secretariat, Wadata Plaza, Abuja. According to Ologunagba, the fees for expression of interest and nomination forms are as follows: “State House of Assembly: Expression of Interest, N100,000; Nomination Form, N500,000. House of Representatives: Expression of Interest, N500,000; Nomination Form, N2,000,000. “Senate: Expression of Interest, N500,000; Nomination Form, N3,000,000. Governorship: Expression of Interest, N1,000,000; Nomination Form, 20,000,000. President: Expression of Interest, N5,000,000; Nomination Form, N35,000,000.” While the fees for presidential and governorship nomination forms are apparently high, the leadership of the PDP was commended for slashing by 50 per cent the cost of expression of interest and nomination forms for young people. One of those who saw the good in the decision of the PDP is the immediate past Senate President, Bukola Saraki. He was in a joyous mood to know that the recommendation of the party’s National Reconciliation and Strategy Committee, chaired by him was accepted. Saraki said, “Following the recommendation of the #OfficialPDPNig National Reconciliation and Strategy Committee early last year, I applaud the moves by our party to sustain further youth inclusion by slashing the cost of nomination and expression of interest forms for youths by 50 percent. Once again, #OfficialPDP Nigeria has shown that we are working to sustain a collaborative atmosphere between the older and younger generation, as we look forward to rescuing Nigeria in 2023.” In 2019, the National Working Committee (NWC) of the PDP fixed the sale of Expression of Interests and Nomination forms for the 2019 general elections, as follows: office of president on the PDP platform, N12million (N2million for Expression of Interest form and N10million for Nomination form). Governorship aspirants on the PDP platform coughed out N6million (N1million as Expression of Interest form and N5million for the Nomination form). It cost a senatorial aspirant N3.5million on the PDP platform, House of Reps aspirant N1.5million and House of Assembly N600,000. The PDP excluded all female aspirants any form of payment to vie for political office on its platform. The Ayu leadership of the PDP appears to have decided to keep the fees for presidential hopefuls on the platform of the party high, in order to avoid a crowded space so that better cohesion and little quarrel can be experienced. Campaigning with the slogan, ‘rescue Nigeria,’ the PDP has set for itself the big task of returning to power at the centre in 2023. The party has retained the fees charged for the 2019 general election for senatorial and state houses of assembly aspirants. However, aspirants for the House of Representatives have to pay more this time around. By keeping the fees for aspirants into the state houses of assembly at N600,000, the party hopes to galvanize a lot of interest that will results in more votes that assure its triumph in the 2023 national elections. But a youth group known as ‘Not Too Young to Run Movement has suggested “That the cost for nomination forms by various parties should not exceed, N2,000,000 for presidential aspirants, N1,000,000 for governorship, N600,000 for senatorial, N400,000 for member of House of Representatives and N200,000 for state assembly.” The National Leader of the group, Hamzat Lawal told journalists in  Gombe State that the high cost of such forms would disenfranchise youths from participating in the 2023 general elections. He faulted the idea of paying exorbitant rate for nomination forms, alleging that it’s a grand plan to target less buoyant politicians, especially youths, who do not have deep pockets to afford such amount of money. According to Hamzat, “The movement notes with concern, the announcement on the cost of nomination forms by various parties which presents a major impediment to youth participation in politics. “We condemn attempts by state governors to hijack the process of the sales of nomination forms; to thwart the aspirations of young aspirants and perceived political enemies.” Reactions have continued to trail the 95th National Executive Council meeting of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, where it pegged its nomination and expression of interest forms for Presidential aspirants at N40 Million. The opposition Party went further to approved the establishment of a 37-member Zoning Committee to make recommendations for the zoning of various elective positions for the 2023 General Elections. The committee is expected to submit its report in two weeks. Speaking with the media after the NEC meeting, the party’s National Publicity Secretary, Debo Ologunagba, disclosed the Party’s decision on the costs of its Nomination Forms to Elective Positions at its national secretariat, Wadata Plaza, Abuja. According to Ologunagba, the fees for expression of interest and nomination forms are as follows: “State House of Assembly: Expression of Interest, N100,000; Nomination Form, N500,000. House of Representatives: Expression of Interest, N500,000; Nomination Form, N2,000,000. “Senate: Expression of Interest, N500,000; Nomination Form, N3,000,000. Governorship: Expression of Interest, N1,000,000; Nomination Form, 20,000,000. President: Expression of Interest, N5,000,000; Nomination Form, N35,000,000.” NEC, also, approved a 50 per cent reduction in nomination fees for youths aged 25 to 30 years for various elective positions as sale of forms begin Thursday, March 17, 2022. The Council also approved the PDP Electoral Guidelines for the conduct of Primary Elections and okayed the timetable and schedule of activities for the 2023 general elections. However, close observers, political analysts and some Nigerians have faulted why the costs, saying that it is a way promoting corruption, milking the National treasury and enriching themselves when they eventually get to the elective position, putting into consideration how much they have spent to purchase nomination forms and campaigns. This, they said will make their first target  recovering the monies they spent to the detriment of the people. A Youth Group under the aegis of “Not Too Young To Run Movement”  lamented the high cost of forms for expression of interest, and nomination across various political parties in the country, using the PDP as a peg. Hamzat Lawal, the National Leader of the movement, at a press conference in Gombe State said that the high cost of such forms would disenfranchise youths from participating in the 2023 general elections. He faulted the idea of paying exorbitant rate for nomination forms, alleging that it’s a grand plan to target less buoyant politicians, especially youths, who do not have deep pockets to afford such amount of money. According to Hamzat, “The movement notes with concern, the announcement on the cost of nomination forms by various parties which presents a major impediment to youth participation in politics.”