 Ibrahim Oyewale in Lokoja President Muhammadu Buhari has congratulated new Attah Igala, His Royal Majesty, Mathew Alaji Opaluwa Ogwuche over his ascension to the stool of his forefathers, urging him to work towards peace and security of his domain, Kogi State and Nigeria in general. Buhari made the call yesterday during the installation and presentation of staff of office to the new Attah Igala by the Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello at Attah Palace in Idah, Idah Local Government Area of the state. The President who was represented by the leader of federal government delegation and Minister of Police Affairs, Alhaji Mohammed Maigari, expressed gratitude to God for making the process of his selection rancour free, praying for God’s guidance for the new Attah Igala and wishing him the success in his endeavours. “What we witness here is demonstration that the right choice has been made and prayed to Allah to give him the wisdom to lead the people of lgalaland” he stressed. The President admonished the royal father to work for the people of Igala land and Kogi State, stressing that the people would also work for his success too. The Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Saad Mohammed Abubakar IlI felicitated with new Attah Igala, pledging the support of all other traditional rulers in the country. Sultan explained that the royal father came at the time Nigeria was facing difficulties, noting that he must be prepared to do his best. “As the President of Kogi State Council of Traditional Rulers, you are automatically a member of Northern Nigerian Council of Traditional Rulers,” he stated. The Sultan posited that his ascension to the throne was the wish of Almighty God that transcends human power, praying to God to guide and direct all his affairs. Governor Bello gave glory to God for giving him the opportunity to be part of a historical epoch event, noting that it was Almighty God who gives power. Bello explained that under his administration over 100 traditional rulers have been graded and upgraded, noting that the state government had zero tolerance for interference in the processing of selection of new Attah Igala end had allowed the wish of the people to prevail. The governor noted that the era of imposition has ended with the coming of a new direction of government, due process in accordance with provision of Section 7 of subsisting law of Kogi State as regards traditional matters. Bello paid a glowing tribute to the late Attah Igala, HRM Micheal Ndakwo Ameh Oboni who died in August 2021. He therefore pledged that the state government will continue to improve on the welfare of the traditional institution in Kogi State