Justina Uzo Some tourism operators in Nigeria want Marriott International to bring St. Regis to Nigeria following the announcement that the hotel chain plans to open in the United Kingdom. Marriott International, Inc., which manages top hotels around the world, had announced the signing of a management agreement with Cola Holdings and The Westbury Hotel Limited to bring the luxury St. Regis brand to the United Kingdom. The new entrant, situated on one of London’s most alluring neighbourhoods, is expected to welcome its first guests in 2023. St. Regis will also open 11 new resorts around the world by 2025. The announcement was made in the Marriot Virtual Press Briefing, recently, which was hosted by the President, EMEA and Senior Vice President, Design Hotels & EMEA Brand Portfolio, Satya Anand, who also gave overview of some of Marriott’s brilliant openings this year. The Nigerian operators expressed their joy saying that business travellers will have the most pleasant time when they visit Nigeria, if the prestigious St. Regis is represented in Nigeria on franchise. They said the newly established Marriott property in Ikeja, Lagos is already showing results after the agreement was signed. An event planner, Chioma Egu, from Lagos hails the move saying “St. Regis is a few luxury away.” She wants Marriott to bring the brand to Nigeria to join the vibrant Lagos hospitality market. “St. Regis brand is not represented in Nigeria, right now. We expect the cherished St. Regis brand to be premiering in Nigeria,” she said excitedly. Egu continued, “The anticipated St. Regis Hotel will not only add more beds to the competitive Lagos market, it will also undoubtedly, be well received by the executives. Another tourism operator in the country pinning her hope on Marriott to give more beds is Ibiso Lawal. While commenting on Marriot International new achievement, Ibiso, one of Nigeria’s travel experts, urged Regis Hotels & Resorts to bring the ‘leader in luxury’ here. “I think their policy transcends the purely commercial gains, important though they are. St. Regis brand will stand out. I will be delighted if Marriott will manage a St. Regis hotel in Nigeria to enable people here to feel its classy brand,” he noted. According to him, “Nigeria has hotels. We have Sheraton, Hilton, Golden Tulip brands, to mention just a few.  The question is, which hotel chain is not represented in Nigeria. But we want more saleable rooms in the upmarket segment. Already, Marriott International is making waves in Lagos. Like Oliver Twist, we want St. Regis and you know what that means for the accommodation segment in Nigeria, competition will bring down rates.” Travel industry insiders are desirous of having more saleable rooms in the upmarket segment of Abuja and Lagos hotel industry to bring down rates. At, present, it has been difficult to control price. Lagos has one of the world’s highest accommodation tariffs.  Lagos Tourism has received poor record when it comes to accommodation tariffs.  Hotel rates in Lagos remain high. For example, guestroom rates at Sun Heaven Hotels & Resorts, Ikoyi, Lagos start from N45,000 to N150.000  a night. Another Lagos hotel, Eko Hotels & Suites charges higher rates which starts from N69,000 a night to N300.000 a night (Eko Signature). The challenge is the market forces, a mismatch in demand and supply whereby more guests are looking for a few standard guestrooms. Prices for the saleable rooms are therefore very high. Speaking earlier on hotels, a MASHAV expert from Israel, Illan Ben-Joseph said: “Nigeria has hotels and more are coming.”  What should worry people, he said, is having budget hotels. “Most hotels in Nigeria are in Lagos. What happened to places like Jos where you hardly find a good hotel? Government should encourage entrepreneurs to develop hotels and attractions in certain areas and give tax relief,” Ben-Joseph said. The St. Regis brand, meanwhile, continues to expand its renowned global portfolio by adding this highly sought-after address in Mayfair, London. Plans call for an extensive $122 million (90 million pound) redevelopment and transformation of the former Westbury Mayfair Hotel, with the addition of an eighth floor. St. Regis London which boasts 196 rooms and suites is offering a highly personalised guest experience on the corner of Bond Street and Conduit Street that will blend the brand’s modern glamour with the best of British style and service. The hotel will be designed by Peter Newman-Earp of Morrison Design with interiors by Richmond International. Furthermore, the property is set to receive an extension to the rear of the hotel, creating enhanced public areas, along with renovations to the façade of the building and the drop-off area outside of the main entrance. Design plans include a signature restaurant, speakeasy jazz bar, fitness centre and spa. The St. Regis London will honour the building’s heritage by retaining the iconic Polo Bar, originally designed for the Phipps family of America, avid polo players and creators of the Westbury Hotel in New York and London, and where guests will be able to enjoy a local twist on the Bloody Mary, St. Regis’ signature cocktail.