 Okon Bassey in Uyo Akwa Ibom State Government would key into trans-border co-operation initiative evolved by the National Boundary Commission (NBC) to checkmate border hostilities and promote inter-border peace and understanding. The Deputy Governor of Akwa Ibom State, Mr. Moses Ekpo, gave the indication when he led a team of NBC officials to Obot Akara and Ibiono Ibom Local Government Areas of the state on sensitisation visit. Ekpo, who was represented by the Permanent Secretary, Office of the Deputy Governor, Mr. Nkopuruk Ekaiko, noted that the idea of the trans-border co-operation was a good development. He said it would offer indigenes of Akwa Ibom and Abia States living along the border flashpoints, the much needed glimmer of hope to go about their normal businesses without any fear of molestation and harm. Addressing council officials, community leaders and representatives of youth and women at the border areas, the deputy governor said that the new initiative was that it offered opportunity to hitherto warring communities to focus on reconciliatory efforts while the federal agencies would be assisting them in setting up critical life-touching infrastructure at the border communities even as they await the final demarcation of the borders. He stressed that the initiative, if well implemented, would turn out to be the best strategy in reducing tension and conflicts at our nation’s borders through the use of the instrumentality of economic empowerment for the mutual benefit of all parties. He described the system as a win-win situation for the border communities as it would not only stem the tide of wanton destruction of lives and property, but would boost mutual trust and genuine love amongst the border indigenes. The Director General of the NBC, Mr. Adamu Adaji, who was represented by the Director of Internal Boundaries, NBC, Mr. Nicholas Emiowele, stressed that the border communities had nothing to fear about the new development, as the new strategy has been successfully test-run on international boundary cases, without failure. He disclosed that the latest effort by the commission was a direct mandate by the federal government to ensure the maintenance of peace and zero conflict rate at all internal borders of the nation. The NBC Director General noted that following the huge success rate of the strategy at international level, the Commission decided to test-run it in Akwa Ibom since the state remained the best in cross-border conflict management. The Chairman of Obot Akara, Ms. Agnes Cosmas Udoenwenwen, and her Ibiono Ibom counterpart, Mr. Ekopimo Polycarp Edet, thanked the state government and the NBC for always collaborating to ensure that peace and understanding prevailed along its border communities.