 Sylvester Idowu in Warri Vice President Yemi Osinbajo said yesterday that it’s now that traditional rulers to needs to play a critical role in efforts aimed at tackling the security challenges confronting the nation. Speaking during a visit to Olu of Warri, Ogiame Atuwatse 111 yesterday at his Palace in Warri, the Vice President said his position was based on the role royal father’s played about three or four years ago when the nation was faced with security challenges in the Niger Delta region. According to him, he and the Deputy Governor of Delta State, Deacon Kingsley Otuaro, in synergy, crisis cross the riverine communities to ensure peace in the state noting that the royal fathers were at the front and centre of the efforts that returned peace to the state. “About three or four years ago, I and the Deputy Governor of Delta State, have been working assiduously in bringing down the insecurity we faced in the past. We were able to achieve results just because the traditional rulership threw it upon themselves to be at the front and centre of mediating the issue. “I think the time we are in also calls for that kind of intervention. I respectfully urge you, your royal majesty to take this on too as a major task because, just as has been mentioned, our country depends a great deal on oil production”, he pleaded. Vice President Osinbajo said the nation wants to see that security challenges in Delta State were brought to an end in most of the oil producing communities. He harped on the security challenges facing the country today noting that it was only President Muhammadu Buhari that could have really confronted the menace. “We recognize, especially with security that very few administrations had been confronted with this plethora of security challenges that we have been confronted with. When you look at the share number and range of those security challenges, it evident that it is necessary to have a leader such as Muhammadu Buhari to be able to take on those challenges but the role of traditional rulership is critical, absolutely critical now,” he added. The Vice President congratulated the Olu of Warri, Ogiame Atuwatse 111 on ascension of the throne of his fore fathers which he described as divine and prayed that his reign will be blessed and fruitful for the kingdom and Nigeria in general. “I have not had the opportunity to visit since his royal majesty ascended the throne of his father’s. Although, we have had occasions to meet but I am happy to be able to come today (yesterday) to formally congratulate you and also to pray that this ascension to the throne, which I know it is ordained by the Almighty God, will be blessed, be fruitful for this kingdom and our nation. “I bring the warm greetings of our President who wants to thank you again for the very kind supportive statements that you made when you visited a couple of weeks ago”, he added. Responding, Olu of Warri, Ogiame Atuwatse 111, he pledged the support of the traditional institutions in supporting the government towards returning peace to the country. The royal father particularly commended the Vice President for the supportive roles to the President adding “thank you for the good works, you have been doing, supporting Mr. President and putting Nigeria first. Please be assured our prayers are continually with you and with the nation in general”. Delta State Governor, Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa, who was represented by his Deputy, Deacon Kingsley Otuaro, assured that the state administration will leave good legacies behind at the expiration of the tenure in 2023. He commended Olu of Warri for his fatherly support to the administration in the state and assured he would not disappoint.