 Global soccer Ola Aina had been a regular with Serie A side Torino. However, on returning from the recently concluded AFCON with the Super Eagles, securing a regular shirt with the Turin side has been difficult to come by. A succour however could come from West Ham as Manager David Moyes has shown interest in the Nigerian defender. The Italian side has now placed a 10 million euros fee on the Nigerian Super Eagles defender, Ola Aina is no longer happy in Turin, and he could be on the move by next summer after the Italian Serie A side, Torino have slammed a 10 million euros fee on him. The Super Eagles star left Chelsea for the Bulls in 2019. After a season which saw him make 32 league appearances, he returned to the Premier League on a loan deal at Fulham. However, he returned to Torino last summer after Fulham got relegated to the Championship. At the beginning of the season, the 25-year-old was a crucial part of the Torino backline. But since he returned from the African Cup of Nations, he has not kicked a ball for Torino. Aina was linked with a return to the Premier League in January, but it did not materialise. Nevertheless, with Aina’s lack of playtime in Turin, a move to the Premier League could be in the offing. According to FootballNews24, Torino are willing to let the Chelsea academy product leave, but they would request for 10million euros before they let Aina go. Aina has spent most of his life in England, and it is expected that he would favour a return to the Premier League rather than elsewhere. Meanwhile, West Ham boss David Moyes wants to bring the 25-year-old defender to the London Stadium in the summer according to a report from Calciomercato. This summer will be an incredibly busy transfer window for Moyes and West Ham with so many players set to be out of contract, moved on or returned to their parent clubs. One player in particular who is out of contract in the summer is Ryan Fredericks. The 29-year-old will undoubtedly be allowed to leave on a free transfer. The harsh truth of the matter is that he isn’t good enough to be playing Premier League football. And if Fredericks moves on, Moyes will have to bring in another right-back, unless he is ready to promote Harrison Ashby to the senior squad. Torino have decided to place Ola Aina on the transfer list ahead of the summer transfer window. And Calcio Mercato claims that the Hammers can pick the Nigerian international up for around £8 million. The 25-year-old joined the Serie A outfit from Chelsea in the summer of 2019 for around £9 million. And it seems as though Torino are looking to recoup a similar fee for him. The good thing about Aina is that he can play at both right-back and left-back. He can even play in the left or right wing positions. So signing him would kill two birds with one stone. Aina has mostly operated as a left-back for Torino this season. In 16 Serie A appearances, the London-born Nigerian international has averaged one tackle, 1.4 interceptions and one clearance per game . The 25-year-old is incredibly athletic, energetic and has stamina and pace in abundance. Aina is expected to be a very strong addition for West Ham United. He would provide strong competition for Aaron Cresswell and Vladimir Coufal in the left-back and right-back positions respectively. £8 million for the Nigerian seems like very good value for the Hammers. And should David Moyes bring Aina back to London from Italy, we believe West Ham will be a lot stronger as a result. Meanwhile, Crystal Palace, West Ham and Lille are said to have joined the race to sign the Torino left-back, who remains a player of interest to Leeds United. Aina, 25, initially joined Torino on loan in the summer of 2018 from Chelsea before a deal was made permanent. However, his long-term future at Torino looks in doubt. The Serie A side are yet to offer him a renewal and it was expected that  in January the ex-Chelsea man had emerged as an option for Leeds. Now, it appears Leeds will not be alone in their pursuit of the London-born flyer. Indeed, Crystal Palace, West Ham and Lille are all interested in Aina – along with Leeds.