 James Sowole in Abeokuta A Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship aspirant in Ogun State, Prof. David Bamgbose, has said that the need to correct marginalisation of Ogun West Senatorial District, informed his decision to contest for the number one position in the state come 2023. Bamgbose stated this during a chat with journalists in Abeokuta, the state capital. The aspirant also slammed the incumbent Governor Dapo Abiodun for his alleged failure to tackle insecurity, ensure food security, poor social welfare and bring about socioeconomic development. Bamgbose, who was the governorship candidate of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) in the state during the 2015 general election, said he had watched with heavy heart how Ogun West, his senatorial district, had been left underdeveloped by successive administrations in the state, despite that the bulk of the state Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) is being generated in the axis. He expressed confidence that if given the PDP governorship ticket, he would eventually emerge winner in 2023. The aspirant said if he could garner over 30,000 votes in 2015 in a party such as APGA, he would poll more votes in a more popular party like the PDP, if given the nod by the party in 2023. He berated the incumbent administration for concentrating huge capital projects in his senatorial district of Ogun East to the detriment of Ogun West. According to him, “the money being expended on Agro Cargo Airport and Ijebu Ode-Mojoda-Epe Road by the governor, can fix many bad roads in Ogun West.” He further knocked the governor for “just paying lip service” to securing lives and property of the Yewa people who had been ravaged by marauding herders. Bamgbose, who noted that all of his investments were located in Ogun State, including a private College of Education, however, said he would ensure even development of the state  if given the mandate by the people of Ogun. The aspirant said the people of Yewa and Ogun West, have learnt their lessons going by the intrigues and outcome of the three elections. He said his administration would focus more on provision of quality education, agriculture, security, youth employment, social welfare of the people, provision of qualitative healthcare, among others. He charged eligible voters in the state to ensure they get the Permanent Voters Card (PVC) so that they will be able to vote out the incumbent administration come 2023.