  *CAF likely to order GFA to pick either Benin or Morocco as venue for first leg Femi Solaja with agency report There is air of uncertainty surrounding where Ghana will host the first leg of the 2022 FIFA World Cup playoff with Nigeria scheduled for March 25. The original venue scheduled for the clash between the two eternal West African rivals was the Cape Coast Stadium. But following the use of the facility to celebrate Ghana’s 65th independence anniversary on March 6, the pitch got messed up. All attempts to fix it ready before CAF/FIFA final inspection last Sunday before Super Eagles hit town for the March 25 date proved a disaster. Now, there are speculations that Ghana may not host the first leg of the playoffs on their home soil. Although there is no formal statement from CAF yet on the result of the final inspection, there is the belief in football  circles that the game may be moved to either Benin Republic or Morocco. Attempts by the Ghana Football Association (GFA) to urge CAF move the match to the alternate Baba Yara Stadium has been rejected because FIFA requires that all match venues a member association would like to use for qualifiers be submitted 90 days to kick-off of the game. Ghana’s National Sports Authority however believes  that the pitch of the Cape Coast Stadium should be ready before March 25  to handle the game. Alexander Tieku, an offical of the Central Regional, NSA maintains that the game can take place at the stadium and that there is no point talking of moving the game elsewhere. This position bellies why the CAF representative accompanied by GFA Deputy Secretary, Alex Asante, and the NSA Director-General, Professor Peter Twumasi were at the Baba Yara Stadium to ascertain its condition during Asante Kotoko’s league game against Bibiani Gold Stars as possible alternate venue. There will be no sanctions if the Cape Coast Stadium fails to pass the fit and proper test, the world football governing body will only direct Ghana to select a venue outside the country. A decision that will deny them the home advantage the Ghanaians are craving to use their fans intimidate Super Eagles to submission before coming to Abuja on March 29 for the crucial second leg of the playoffs.