 . Dangote, Aig-Imoukhuede, Wigwe adopts PHCs Gilbert Ekugbe The federal government has tasked the Organised Private Sector (OPS) on the need to increase their investment drive in the nation’s health care sector. The Vice President, Federal Republic of Nigeria, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, at a two day summit organised by the Ministry of Health in conjunction with the National Primary Healthcare Development Agency (NPHCDA) tagged, “Reimagining primary healthcare in Nigeria,” stated the need for increased private sector investment as a key driver to addressing challenges to the efficient and effective running of the Nigerian health system. He lauded the efforts of the NPHCDA and the Private Sector Health Alliance of Nigeria through its Adopt-a-Health Facility Programme (ADHFP) initiative, and other private sector leaders for undertaking the enormous task of building a truly equitable and accessible healthcare system. The Minister of Finance, Mrs. Zainab Ahmed, highlighted the need for collaborative effort between public stakeholders & private sector leaders towards a sustainable health care system in Nigeria. She also focused on the need for sustainable healthcare funding through sin taxes and mandatory health insurance. The Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire and the Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer, NPHCDA, Dr. Faisal Shuaibu reiterated that PHC remains the foundation and first line of defence for an effective health system. The “Hour of Commitment”, coordinated by the Minister of Finance, was the high point of the summit, with landmark commitments made by private sector titans such as Alhaji Aliko Dangote represented by Ms. Zouera Youssoufou, Managing Director, Aliko Dangote Foundation, who made a personal commitment to adopt one PHC in all forty-four LGAs of Kano state. At the two-day summit, the role of the private sector was highlighted in delivering quality and accessible healthcare in Nigeria. The Founder & Chairman of The Aig-Imoukhuede Foundation, Mr Aigboje Aig-Imoukhuede, committed to adopt one PHC in in each of the nineteen LGAs in Edo State with an additional four LGAs to be decided by the Honourable Minister of Finance who chaired the Commitment Session, On his part, the Chief Executive Officer, Access Group, Mr. Herbert Wigwe, through the Herbert Wigwe Foundation, committed to adopting one PHC in all 23 LGAs in Rivers State. The former Minister of Health, and Global Director for Health, Nutrition and Population at the World Bank Group, co-founder of PSHAN, Prof. Muhammad Ali Pate, also stated during his panel session that he would be adopting one PHC in Misau LGA of Bauchi State. The Chief Executive Officer of the Private Sector Health Alliance of Nigeria, Dr. Tinuola Akinbolagbe expressed gratitude to the directors of PSHAN and other business leaders for their unprecedented generosity and solidarity. “With a total of 91 PHCs adopted out of our target of 774, we have achieved approximately 15% of our target in one day which marks an incredible stride.” She encouraged members of the organized business sector to follow suit so that PSHAN could fulfil its commitment to supporting the NPHCDA and making primary healthcare accessible to all Nigerians. The ADHFP is a multi-impact initiative that aims to provide a world class PHC in each of the 774 LGAs in Nigeria. Under the strategic leadership of the founding directors, PSHAN is committed to supporting the provision of quality accessible primary healthcare to all Nigerians through the Adopt-a-Health Facility Programme (ADHFP). In attendance were the Vice President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, Prof Yemi Osibajo, the Ministers of Finance and Health, Chairman of the Nigerian Governors Forum, Governors, Members of the National Assembly, International developmental partners, The US Ambassador to Nigeria and other members of the diplomatic corps, the Sultan of Sokoto and other Royal Fathers, Alhaji Aliko Dangote GCON, Mr. Aigboje Aig-Imoukhuede CON, Members of the Judiciary, MDAs and other relevant stakeholders in the health sector.