 Rivers United and Plateau United continued their tight race for the Nigerian Professional Football League (NPFL) title with wins at home that left the two sides still separated by one point as the season reached the halfway fixtures In other games, Remo Stars, Enugu Rangers also recorded home wins to stay within sight of the front runners as the curtain fell on the first stanza of the 2021-22 Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) season on Sunday. At the Adokiye Amiesimaka Stadium, Port Harcourt, Rivers United whipped reigning champions, Akwa United 4-1 to hold on to the top spot. They have now gone nine games without a defeat. Ishaq Kayode opened the floodgate of goals in the seventh minute from the spot for his 11th goal of the season while former Heartland FC ace, Chijioke Akuneto weighed in a hat trick in the 12th, 28th and 43rd minutes to ensure they were 4-0 at half time. The Promise Keepers reduced the deficit in the 60th minute through Austin Osayande. The win ensured the Pride of Rivers are halfway champions with 42 points from 19 games but Akwa United who will now host this fixture in a fortnight in Uyo are sixth with 27 points. Plateau United continued to lay claims to the title after a routine 2-0 victory over Sunshine Stars at the New Jos Stadium. The win extended their unbeaten streak to 11 matches. Mohammed Zulkifilu and Haggai Katoh goals in the 22nd and 68th minutes guided the Peace Boys to their ninth win in the last 11 games. They are in second position with 41 points but the Owena Whales slid to the eighth spot with 26 points. Enyimba picked a draw in Bauchi against Wikki Tourists to remain in the top half at the ninth spot with 26 points but they extended their winless streak to three games as Finidi George led technical crew continue to be under scrutiny. At the Remo Stars Stadium, Ikenne, Remo Stars recovered from their away loss to Niger Tornadoes to thrash Kwara United 3-0. The victory which came courtesy of Andy Okpe, Tolulope Ojo and Seun Ogunribide in the 47th, 56th and 82nd minutes restored the Sky Blue Stars to the fourth spot with 32 points but Kwara United are a spot behind in fifth with 31 points. MATCH DAY 19 K’Pillars 3-1 Gombe Utd Plateau 2-0 Sunshine Wikki  0-0 Enyimba Remo  3-0 Kwara Utd Rivers Utd 4-1 Akwa Utd Dakkada 2-1 Tornadoes Abia War’ 2-2 Katsina Utd Heartland 0-0 MFM Rangers 5-3 Lobi Stars