 George Okoh in Makurdi Benue South senatorial district last Friday demanded the rotation of the governorship seat of Benue State to the district popularly known as Zone C in 2023. In a rally tagged: ‘Mega Rally for Zone C Governorship Movement’, which was organised by the Benue Rebirth Movement, an Idoma socio-political group, led by former Chief of Defence Intelligence, AVM Monday Morgan, the zone called on all political stakeholders to support the actualisation of zoning of the governorship ticket to the Benue South zone The rally witnessed a huge turnout from both the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the All Progressives Congress (APC) as well as other political parties in attendance. In his remark, the leader of Benue Rebirth Movement, Morgan, harped on the need for the governorship seat to be rotated among the three senatorial districts as it is done in other states. “Nasarawa state rotates its governorship among the three senatorial zones also do Plateau, Kogi, Taraba State and all the adjoining North-Central states. Why is it that Benue State refuses to co-tow to normal democratic norms? “That is why we agitate that the time has come that from 2023, our own man from Zone ‘C’ would mount the instrument of power in Benue State. “We know you as a man of conscience, the man that has the common courage to do the uncommon things that bring people together. We know you to stand for integrity and fairness; we believe that no matter the pressure, you will not bow to some forces that think that one tribe should continue to rule in perpetuity,” he said. .Speaking while receiving the Idoma people at the Government House in Makurdi, the state Governor, Samuel Ortom, noted that he was the first governor to have given such appointive positions as the Chief judge of the state, the head of service and others to Idoma people. He added that as the governor of the state, if it is in his capacity to single-handedly give them the governorship, he would have considered the Idoma people first and last. Ortom, who was represented by his Deputy, Benson Abounu, further noted that the process leading to the election of a governor is not left to him alone, stressing that there was the need to consult widely among the traditional institution and political class. The governor, however, encouraged the Idoma people to liaise with their Tiv brothers to give them their support in their agitation to govern the state in 2023.