 Seriki Adinoyi in Jos The Arewa Youth Alliance for Development (AYAD) has called for the dissolution of the managements of Nigeria National Petroleum Cooperation (NNPC) and Nigerian Midstream and Downstream Petroleum Regulatory (NMDPR) over the protracted scarcity of fuel bedeviling the country. It has also given a seven-day ultimatum to the federal government to resolve the fuel crisis or face nation-wide massive protest. In a press statement signed by the Leader of AYAD, Mr. Mock Samuel Kure, the youths observed that the disruption in the supply chain has also caused sudden inflation in cost of transportation leading to increase in the prices of daily consumables. Kure said: “We had waited patiently for the National Assembly and NNPC to make public its report on the hearing regarding the cause of the importation of the bad fuel to no avail. It seems to be taking forever. We have every reason to believe that some sacred cows are the elements that have thrown Nigerians into this needless hardship.” AYAD also decried the current cost of petrol, which now goes for N250 to N300 per litre, saying that government is yet to remove subsidy on Premium Motor Spirit, hence, the benchmark of the product ought to still remain N165. The group alleged that “the fact that fuel is sold openly at this exorbitantly price without any form of resistance makes one to suspect that the illicit profit most of the independent oil marketers are making is being shared between them and some staff of NMDPRA. “We, therefore, call on the Acting President,Professor Yemi Osinbajo, to summon the type of courage he deployed when he removed the erstwhile Director General of the Directorate of State Security, Mr. Lawal Daura, to deploy same in sacking the CEO of NNPC Limited, Mr. Mele Kyari, and the CEO of NMDPRA, Mr. Farouk Ahmed, for negligence of duty and sabotage. The group also called on the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) and Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) to crackdown on fueling stations selling petroleum products above the national bench mark, saying “we adjudge their activities to be worse than “yahoo yahoo.” Nigerians will be glad to see some of them being paraded for exploitation and national sabotage.”