 Alex Enumah One Hajia Ramatu identified as wife of the suspended Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP), Abba Kyari yesterday slumped in court during the hearing of her husband’s bail application before Justice Emeka Nwite of the Federal High Court, Abuja. Abba Kyari and six others were last Monday arraigned before the court on charges bordering on alleged conspiracy, obstruction and dealings in cocaine worth 17.55 kilograms. Although the suspended DCP who used to head the special Intelligence Response Team (IRT) of the Inspector General of Police and four others pleaded not guilty to the eight count charge preferred against them by the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), the court had fixed Monday 14 for hearing of their bail applications. However, at the resumed hearing, all defendants were in court and represented by their lawyers. Ramatu was also present in court to witness the proceedings. She however slumped on the floor shortly after Justice Nwite, announced that he would deliver his ruling on the bail applications on March 28. Ramatu, believed to be in her middle aged woman and wearing a black Hijab, fell on the floor just as armed operatives of the NDLEA, were taking Kyari and the other defendants out of the court premises. Immediately after she fell, some NDLEA’s officials and lawyers quickly rushed her into one of the offices on the third floor of the court. It was later learnt that she was asthmatic following efforts to secure an inhaler for her use. Earlier, Mr. Mahmoud Magaji SAN, who represented Kyari and the 2nd defendant, prayed the court to grant his clients bail, arguing that the offence they were charged with was bailable. He also assured the court that the defendants would not jump bail if granted and would make themselves available throughout the trial. Similarly, lawyer to the fourth and fifth defendants in moving their bail applications prayed the court to admit them to bail on “liberal” terms. However, lawyer to the third defendant prayed the court to take his application on a later date because he was just served with the counter affidavit of the prosecution and would need time to respond. Meanwhile, the prosecution lawyer, Joseph Sunday, opposed the bail application, stating that all the conditions for which the defendants should not be granted bail were inherent in the case. He therefore prayed the court to exercise discretion against the defendants. In a short ruling, Justice Nwite announced that ruling in the bail applications was fixed for March 28, 2022. The judge also stated that the court would also take submissions on the propriety of the review of the facts of the case in respect of the sixth and seventh defendants, who pleaded guilty to the charge. Kyari was on March 7, arraigned alongside four of his colleagues in the IRT, among whom are; Sunday Ubia, Bawa James, Simon Agirigba and John Nuhu as 1st to 5th defendants, while the 6th and 7th are; Chibunna Umeibe and Emeka Ezenwanne. The duo were alleged to be drug traffickers arrested at the Akanu Ibiam International Airport, Enugu. The NDLEA, in the charge marked FHC/ABJ/57/2022, accused the defendants of conspiracy, obstruction and dealing in cocaine worth 17.55 kilograms.