Lagos NBA Explores Building a Greater Democratic Nigeria The Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Lagos Branch held its two-day conference, an essential activity of the annual Law Week, on March 21 and 22, 2022 at the Civic Centre, Lagos. The conference was graced by dignitaries from across the nation, including the Governor of Lagos State, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, ably represented by the Attorney General of the state, Mr. Moyosore Onigbanjo (SAN); the Speaker of the state House of Assembly, Hon. Mudashiru Obasa, also ably represented by Hon. Gbolahan Yishawu, and senior members of the Inner Bar and the Outer Bar. Themed: “Democracy and Legal Order:  Shaping the Future,” the two-day conference, which was divided into eight plenary sessions, explored the need for deliberate action in utilizing Nigeria’s democracy and the law in shaping the future that Nigerians desire, among other sub-themes and discussions. Addressing attendees, who had gathered from various sectors of the economy, legal luminaries and viewers who joined the conference virtually, the Chairman of the NBA, Lagos Branch, Ikechukwu Uwanna, in his welcome address, said: “I welcome all the participants to this intellectual harvest: the 2022 NBA Lagos Branch Law Week. The Law Week of the NBA Lagos Branch has over the years been an opportunity for lawyers, academics, politicians and other professionals to converge to cross-fertilize ideas on how our polity can be better.” Speaking further on the choice of this year’s discourse and theme, Uwanna said: “This theme provides us with an opportunity to interrogate our fledging democracy vis-a-vis the legal order upon which it stands and provide thoughts on how we can build a greater democratic Nigeria to shape our collective future.” Relaying the goodwill message from the Governor of Lagos State, Sanwo-Olu, represented by the Attorney General of the state, Onigbanjo, congratulated the members of the premier branch on the occasion of the 2022 Law Week and reiterated the importance of the apt and germane theme chosen to set the tone for the 2022 discussions. “Considering the pivotal role of lawyers towards stabilizing our democracy, the foundation of any democracy is anchored on the rule of law, both in its conservative and contemporary meaning. Once we fail to uphold the rule of law, anarchy, nepotism and totalitarianism will pervade the entire society. “There is no gain-saying that at the helms of stirring rule of law are lawyers. The legal profession therefore must reinforce its image as the defender of the right of a common man with the dogged commitment to the adjudication of law and dispensation of justice especially as we prepare for the 2023 elections,” the governor said. To set the tone for the conference, the keynote speaker, Prof. Akin Oyebode spoke at length about the state of the nation, absence of decorum and contradictions in the practice of democracy. According to him, “Let me begin by saying that the lesson of inevitability of democratic values within the legal order is not lost on any serious legal practitioner or even casual observer of goings on in the society and indeed the human destiny. Of the multivarious problems afflicting the country currently, hardly is anything more benumbing than the crises and contradictions inherent in our practice of democracy vis-a-vis the legal order.” The plenary sessions explored eight sub-themes — the role of good governance and legal order in curbing societal ills that threaten to define and shape the future of our country; the role of the private sector in ensuring accountability in governance and contributing to good governance; the adequacy of the current fiscal arrangement within Nigeria; and the impediments to the actualisation of Nigeria’s full potential as an investment destination. Other issues examined were — the introduction of more practical aspects to the study of law in tertiary institutions; the alternative business rescue options introduced by the 2020 CAMA and the challenges being faced in implementing them; the leveraging of technology to increase efficiency in case scheduling and management; and the role of the judiciary, legislature and the executive in the forthcoming 2023 elections. Other speakers at the conference included: the Senior Partner OAL, Dr. Olisa Agbakoba (SAN); Chief Counsel, Lawal Rabana & Co, Chief R.A Lawal-Raban (SAN); Chairperson, International Federation of Women Lawyers (FIDA), Lagos Branch, Mrs. Chinwe Efobi; human rights lawyer, Ogunsola- Shonibare Law Firm, Mrs. Ayo Obe; Acting Chief Judge of Imo State, Justice Theresa Chukwuemeka-Chikeka; and Director, Governance and Sustainability, Sahara Group, Mrs. Pearl Uzokwe; Others were Founder, Amber Solicitors, Mrs. Nkem Agboti; CEO, Financial Derivatives Co. Ltd, Mr. Bismarck Rewane; Partner, Aluko and Oyebode, Mr. Chukwuka Ikwuazom; Professor of Taxation, Lagos State University, Prof. Derek Obadina; Partner, UUBO, Mrs. Lolade Ososami; Partner, PWC, Mr. Taiwo Oyedele; Partner, Ojukwu, Fatou & Yusuf; Prof. Ernest Ojukwu (SAN); Principal Partner, Usman & Elema, Mr. Sylvester Elema (SAN); Professor of Law, UNILAG, Prof. Ayo Atsenuwa; Chairman, NBA ICLE, Mr. Tobenna Erojikwe; and CEO, NGX Regulation Limited, Mrs. Tinuade Awe. The Co-founder & Former Chairman, Aluko & Oyebode, Mr. Gbenga Oyebode; CEO, Infrastructure Credit & Guarantee Company Ltd, Mr. Chinua Azubike; Senior Vice-President & Head Financial Advisory, African Finance Corporation, Mr. Folahanmi Fagbule; Judge of the Federal High Court, Awka Division, Justice Nnamdi Dimgba; Senior Partner, Punuka LP, Dr. Anthony Idigbe (SAN); Professor of Management and Accounting, Lead City University, Ibadan, Prof. Godwin Oyedokun; Chairman, ICT Committee, NBA-SBL, Mr. Rotimi Ogunyemi; President, National Industrial Court, Justice Benedict Kanyip; and Managing Partner, Technology Advisors, Mr. Basil Udotai, also spoke at the conference.Other speakers at the conference were: the Lecturer, Commercial and Industrial Law, UNILAG, Dr. (Mrs) Adekemi Omotubora; Partner AO2 Law, Mr. Abidemi Daniel; Partner Babalakin & Co, Kehinde Daodu; former Chief Judge of Lagos State, Justice Ayotunde Phillips (rtd); Onigbanjo (SAN); Managing Partner, Simmons Cooper Partners, Mr. Dapo Akinosun, (SAN); and Commissioner, Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Mike A. Igini Esq. This year’s Lagos Law Week comes against the backdrop of Nigeria’s multifaceted crisis and the resulting mounting pressure that threatens the future of the country. By leading this discourse, the NBA Lagos Chapter mapped out a new course for the redemption of the nation’s legal system and the freedom that citizens should enjoy in a democratic nation. The 2022 NBA Lagos Law Week came to a grand close with an Hawaiin-themed closing party at the Civic Centre on March 25, 2022. Other activities of note during the week included a health walk, novelty match, health check, charity visit, new wig induction and a young lawyers’ career fair.