SHOWBIZFLAIR Ferdinand Ekechukwu ‘King of Thieves’, an epic film by Euphoria 360 and Anthill Studios, is set for release. The film premieres April 8, 2022. Sub titled ‘Ogundabede’, the epic drama marks the first slate in an anticipated rollout of huge budget Yoruba epics in the new studio partnership deal between Niyi Akinmolayan’s Anthill studios and Femi Adebayo’s Euphoria 360. As part of its release plans, the movie debuted its spanking new trailer last week. The Yoruba epic led ensemble promises drama, action, suspense. The new trailer depicts slick visual effects that are tightly well done with an intriguing storyline and plot set in Ajeromi, an ancient Yoruba kingdom that is forced into chaos following the invasion of the vicious Ageshinkole. Scripted by Yinka Laoye from a story by Femi Adebayo, it follows the story of the Kingdom of Ajeromi, which is being terrorised by a band of thieves led by an all-powerful bandit named Ageshinkole. Concerned by his pillaging, the kingdom moves to destroy him, through the hunters, witches and priests, thus beginning this adventurous saga of revenge, bravery and glory. Recall that principal photography kicked off in June 2021, with co-executive producer Femi Adebayo unveiling BTS from the then-ongoing production, showing an impressive lineup of Yoruba stars in the lead role such as Toyin Abraham, Odunlade Adekola, Ibrahim Chatta, Adedimeji Lateef, Aisha Lawal, Mr Macaroni and Broda Shaggi in supporting roles. The partnership with Euphoria 360 has the access to the trove of Yoruba stories with actors, location and everything that makes the story works including their fan base. Co-partner, Niyi Akinmolayan, exclusively shares how this partnership was birthed, what makes it crucial at this time and why it marks a new milestone for the next generation of Nigerian movies. Akinmolayan said: “It is important for the industry to scale. There is no industry in the world where scale happens without collaboration. And when this collaboration happens, both parties understood where their strength lies and must set out to then combine these strengths to not only push boundaries but break old milestones and achieve new ones to inspire the next generation of creators. “The beginning of this partnership struck off from working with Femi Adebayo in the movie “Progressive Tailor’s Club” and other amazing Yoruba actors I worked with in “Prophetess”. I’ve always loved Yoruba actors and the nature of their stories. Now that I’m co-producing with Femi Adebayo to create a new slate of projects like this, the nature of how to scale it up excites me a lot.”