Olawale Ajimotokanin Abuja An Abuja-based lawyer and the initiator of Abuja Youth Soccer Talent Hunt, Niyi Ayoola-Daniel, has hailed Nigeria’s Interim Coach, Augustine  Eguavoen for including FC Copenhagen of Denmark midfielder, Akinkunmi Amoo in the Super Eagles 32-man provisional list for 2022 World Cup play off against the Black Stars of Ghana on March 25 and 29 respectively. Ayoola-Daniel described the inclusion as a brilliant decision, saying it will provide permanent solution to Super Eagles’ offensive problem in the midfield. The football enthusiast, who coordinated the Annual Judges Workshops, delivered the assessment while chatting with journalists in Abuja. “Eguavoen is a brilliant coach with great vision trying to solve the problem of an effective playmaker in the Super Eagles attacking formation which was very obvious at the last Africa Cup of Nations in Cameroon. “Even though l would have also loved to see Eberechi Eze of Crystal Palace in the Super Eagles (but you can’t force a horse to drink water even if you manage to lead it to the stream) and that is why l shower praises on Eguavoen for inviting Amoo as a midfielder and the young man is also very excited to play for the Super Eagles,” Ayoola-Daniel said. Amoo, who is dubbed the ‘Little Messi’ is an incredibly gifted left foot player who can play as a combative midfielder cum playmaker behind the strikers. Ayoola-Daniel said he has no doubt whatsoever that Amoo’s very fast dribbling and passing abilities with the ball will make him a most effective and creative playmaker for the Eagles. He recalled that Lionel Messi as a young teenager started as a winger for Barcelona before transiting under Coach Pep Guardiola to a playmaker behind the strikers. “The only advice I will offer Eguavoen is that he should make his players, especially the youngest of them all, Amoo to dig deeper into his technical abilities by adding free-kick taking skills to his game. “We all remember that Messi was not much of a set-piece specialist in his early years but he later transformed himself into one of the best set-piece takers in the world. “The Minister of sports, Mr Sunday Dare and NFF President, Amaju Pinnick should also be commended for giving Eguavoen a free hand in the selection of invited players. This is the way to go. I see Nigeria defeating Ghana both away and in Abuja,” said.