 Rebecca Ejifoma and Innocent Megbolu Akokites Graduates Initiative for Transparency and Development (AGITAD) has unanimously endorsed the Governor of Ekiti State, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, for President of the nation. The group made this known in a media parley on the theme, ‘Towards a New Nigeria: 2023 in Focus’. In his remark, the Director of Media and Public Engagements AGITAD, Dr. Hanson Aimofumeh said, “We have come to the indisputable conclusion that Dr. John Olukayode Fayemi, the governor of Ekiti State, has what it takes to lead Nigeria after the tenure of President Muhamadu Buhari in 2023.” He further described Fayemi, who doubles as the Chairman Nigeria Governors Forum and former Minister of Solid Minerals, as a young, vibrant and calm man with distinct leadership qualities. According to the director, Fayemi’s leadership of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum is a testimony to his leadership style, adding that the forum had never had it so good. “It is on record that as chairman of the forum, he has piloted it rancor-free and this has helped flatten the usual political temperature used to emit from that body in years past. “This enabled governors to concentrate on their core mandate of delivering the individuals of democracy to the larger number of their constituents,” Aimofumeh commended. The group, therefore, declared that Fayemi stands on burning national issues are salutary, even as he continues to record monumental achievements in delivering infrastructure, “Upon an impressive bouquet of social services in qualitative education and health delivery to Ekiti.” Aimofumeh noted that the former minister was able to achieve this measure of success because of his strength of character, capacity to see the bigger picture, hands-on capability to deliver on projects, and his personal interaction with fellow governors. And in recognition and appreciation of Fayemi’s sterling qualities, AGITAD called on Fayemi to declare to run for the highest executive office of the country come 2023. Speaking also, another member of the group, Dr. Taiwo Orisalade, assured journalists that a new Nigeria is possible. In his defense, he said as AGITAD their resolve to settle for Fayemi is his personality. “He is globally recognised, physically fit, and mentally sound. “Highly cerebral; at the whip of the moment he can tackle any issue. We are talking of the person himself. And we have found him all round.”