 *Ighalo, Iheanacho, Ahmed Musa, Etebo, eight others amongst early birds Duro Ikhazuagbe Super Eagles preparations for the 2022 World Cup playoffs with Ghana’s Black Stars opened on Monday with 12 players at the Abuja camp of the team. Amongst the early birds in camp include; William Troost-Ekong, Leon Balogun, Semi Ajayi, Ola Aina, Frank Onyeka, Odion Ighalo, Daniel Akpeyi, Ahmed Musa, Oghenekaro Etebo, Kelechi Iheanacho, Shehu Abdullahi and Francis Uzoho. Media Officer of the team, Babafemi Raji confirmed to THISDAY that more players were being expected to troop into the camp last night before the last  batch hit Abuja today. Although Captain of the team, Ahmed Musa, was sighted on arrival at the airport on Sunday, he however did not stroll into in the camp until yesterday. The Fatih Karagumruk winger in the Turkish Super Lig joined his international teammates ahead of the team’s trip to Kumasi to play the Black Stars in the first leg of the final qualifier on Friday, March 25. Meanwhile, Ghana’s Black Stars’ camp at the Alisa Hotel in Accra is also already bubbling as 16 players hit the camp on the first day. The players currently in camp are: Jojo Wollacot, Thomas Partey, Christopher Antwi-Adjei, Dennis Korsah, Edmund Addo, Andy Yiadom, Joseph Aidoo, Gideon Mensah, Yaw Yeboah, Alexander Djiku, Majeed Waris, Felix Afena-Gyan, Joseph Paintsil, Danlad Ibrahim, Fatawu Issahaku and Dauda Mohammed. Black Stars interim coach, Otto Addo, is expecting a full house by the close of the day as the team prepares for the crucial World Cup playoff against Nigeria. The Black Stars host the Super Eagles in the first leg on March 25, 2022, at the Baba Yara Sports Stadium before travelling for the second leg to be played on March 29, 2022, in Abuja at the Moshood Abiola Stadium. Some players joined the team’s camp as early as Saturday and the majority of them arrived on Sunday night. Coach Otto Addo is hoping to get the full complement of his squad by the close of day. Arsenal midfielder Thomas Partey who is expected to lead the team in the absence of Andre Ayew has arrived in camp. According to the GFA, the Black Stars will travel to Kumasi on Tuesday, March 22, 2022, to continue with preparations for the game.