 David-Chyddy Eleke in Awka Nigeria Association of Women Journalists (NAWOJ), Ultimate Business Women and Farmers Association of Nigeria and the Wife of Anambra State Governor, Mrs. Ebelechukwu Obiano, have condemned the inhuman treatment meted on a widow in the state. The unidentified woman, an indigene of Aguleri, Anambra East Local Government Area, had on Saturday been paraded naked by some indigenes, after her husband was said to have collapsed and died, during sex with her. In a video which trended on Saturday, she had been accused of killing her husband with overdose of sex, and had been walked round the community unclad. The Anambra State Chapter of NAWOJ, in its reaction to the video, had condemned it, demanding the arrest and prosecution of those involved. Chairperson of Anambra Chapter of NAWOJ, Mrs. Franklyn Onyekachi, in a press release made available to journalists expressed shock and disbelief at the treatment on the woman. Onyekachi said: “While some reports have it that as a result of her alleged unfaithfulness to her husband, he died during sexual intercourse with her, another says it was because the husband ate her food. “Whichever be the case, while we do not support infidelity and promiscuity, we condemn in strong terms the treatment meted to this woman. “NAWOJ Anambra wonders how the people arrived at the conclusion that the woman killed her husband since no autopsy was conducted on the man before his burial. We are also in shock that such a primitive and detestable practice will be made mention of in this 21st century. It is also heartbreaking that fellow women were among the woman’s tormentors going by the viral video.” In another press release, a group, Ultimate Business Women and Farmers Association of Nigeria also condemned the action. The group’s National President, Mrs. Nkiru Nwagbo, said: “This body wishes to state that we insist that the law must take its course and that the perpetrators must be brought to book. “We also call on the Federation of Women Lawyers (FIDA) to take up this matter and rise to defend and protect the right of this embattled woman.” The wife of the Governor of Anambra State, and founder of Caring Family Enhancement Initiative (CAFE), Dr. Ebelechukwu Obiano, has expressed outrage over the matter. She said: “How anyone could have contrived to subject a fellow human being to such debasing treatment in this 21st century beats my imagination. I am particularly unhappy because it is a clear betrayal and an affront on the values of our society and a de-marketing of the efforts we made in the last eight years to promote the dignity and respect for our women.” The first lady said that she has already called the attention of the relevant authorities to weigh in and bring the perpetrators of the dastardly act to book as it cannot be condoned in the society. Meanwhile, the Anambra State Police Command had on Sunday stated that the woman had been rescued from the mob, and one person arrested.