 Sylvester Idowu in Warri The Chairman of Ugbomro community in Uvwie Local Government Area of Delta State, Mr. Solomon Okodaso, has been arrested for  alleged drug peddling. Okodaso was picked up by a crack squad of the Delta Police Command at a drug criminal hideout at Atata quarters, Ugbomro community following a tip off. The State Police Public Relation Officer, Bright Edafe, a Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) who confirmed this in Warri on Saturday, also said that a female suspect, simply identified as Aisha Hassan, was also arrested by men of the Area Command in Asaba for allegedly drugging an Okada rider and stealing his motorcycle. On the arrest of the community leader, he said that  it  was made following a raid on the black spot carried out on March 9, at about 18:35 hours in compliance with directive of the State Commissioner of police. He said that following series of reports the Command has been receiving regarding some drug cartels in the state, and the high rate at which the youths are abusing drugs, the Commissioner of Police(CP) Delta state Command,  Ari Muhammed Ali, had directed all tactical teams, DPOS and Area commanders to embark on intelligence led raiding to curb this menace. Edafe said CP Ali had instructed his men to identify all illicit drugs hideouts, arrest and ensure that those found wanting are prosecuted accordingly. The team, he said, ‘acting on intelligence, raided a drug criminal hideout at Atata quarters, Ugbomro Community in Uwvie LGA during which one Solomon Okodaso, male suspected to be a drug dealer and also the Ogbomro Community Chairman was arrested.” While saying that investigation was ongoing in the matter, he disclosed that 12 bottles of codeine, 14 sachets of tramadol, one and half compressed sack of loud, 73 wraps of weeds suspected to be SK, 65 tablets of happy mood drugs, one  pack of Colorado,  one pack of Arizona, nine packets of razlers, N192,000.00 cash, one Samsung handset, one  infinix handset,one  ash colored Mercedes Benz c350 with reg no. KUJ 664 BH, one  white colored Lexus 330 vehicle  with reg no. EFR 303 DC were recovered as exhibit from the suspect. In a related development, one Aisha Hassan, has been arrested by men of the Area Command in Asaba for allegedly robbing an Okada rider of his motorcycle. He said that the arrest was made following a report received by the Area Commander Asaba on February 23, at about 1430hhrs. According to him, ‘an Okada rider (name withheld) carried a lady named Aisha Hassan ‘f’ and one other who pretended to be passengers to Kenu Guest house located at Bonsaac, on getting to the hotel, the victim stated that the lady brought out drink for them to drink unknown to him that sleeping pills and suspected hard drug have been added to the drink. ‘After drinking he slept off and to his greatest surprise, when he woke up he discovered that his red colour unregistered KC Sanya motorcycle with Engine No. 162FMJ510828953, chasis No. IPCKL11M1018611 valued N330,000 has been stolen by the suspects. ‘The Area commander Asaba ACP Nuhu Hamidu, detailed Police detectives to investigate and ensure that the said suspects are arrested. Consequently, the team went on an intelligence led investigation and arrested one of the suspects named Aisha Hassan. ‘Investigation later revealed that her gang member took the motorcycle to an unknown destination’, he said. While saying that investigation is ongoing with a view to possibly recover the said motorcycle and to arrest the fleeing suspect, Edafe said the CP urged members of the public to help with any useful information that will lead to the arrest of the suspect and also recover the said motorcycle.