 Sunday Aborisade and Udora in Abuja Ahead of the National Convention of the All Progressives Congress (APC) slated for Saturday, one of the aspirants for the Chairmanship position, Senator Sani Musa (Niger East) yesterday  said he would ensure the party is strengthened as an institution if he emerges chairman. Musa, who met with the APC Caucus of the House of Representatives, said that instead of creating strong individuals the party needs to be strengthened so leaders can be groomed and the welfare of Nigerians taken care of. He said: “The kind of leadership I would bring is that which those that run the affairs of the party should be seen to been to be very useful to everyone. They will be busy 24/7, 365 days and not only when we have convention or congresses. It would even reduce the burden of leadership because if majority are well educated and enlightened with the programmes and activities of the governing party, I don’t see how any other party would have a space.” The ranking Senator lamented that the APC is not taking advantage of the numerous constituency projects or infrastructural development, saying that all that will change if he emerges victorious. Musa promised to embrace information and communication technology (ICT) in the running of the party, adding that he will ensure inclusiveness of more women in political offices. “Today the APC is not taking advantage of the numerous constituency projects that our legislators are doing. There is nothing like that in our party. We do not do the least of it, town hall meetings whereby you engage the ward executives of the party to the state gathering in one place. Even if we would do it on a quarterly basis, it would make our constituents believe that the party in government knows what it is doing. APC is not taking advantage of the infrastructural development that we are doing all over Nigeria. It is the party that should make Nigerians to realize that this is what we are doing,” he added. A South-West Pressure Group, the Lisabi Progressives Union yesterday reaffirmed its support for the All Progressives Congress (APC) chairmanship bid of Niger East Senator,  Sani Musa. The leadership of the group, in a statement obtained by our correspondent in Abuja,stated that its position had not changed on their preferred choice of  Musa as the right man for the national Chairman of the APC. The group’s National President, Adeleke Lukman, who signed the statement on behalf of the union, said members of the progressives family were not swayed by media propaganda and deliberate misrepresentation of events. The LPU condemned the idea of   swing stories of purported endorsement of a particular candidate by Mr. President to intimidate other candidates. Part of the statement read: “Today, we make bold to say that the purported endorsement of a particular candidate few weeks to national convention  is laughable and only exists in the imagination of those who sort to achieve a sinister motive and further plunge our party into chaos. “Our leader, President Muhammadu Buhari is a democrat and would never be a part of such cheap charade. “We believe that all the aspirants contesting for the position of the national chairman of our great party are eminently qualified. “ As such, we expect the candidates to campaign vigorously and consult with party leaders on their aspirations. “It makes a mockery of the entire campaign process when a candidate who was never in the race  is now purportedly being foisted on other candidates who have put in the hard work to campaign legitimately within the provisions of our party constitution. “Our stands remains the same, recall that in August 2021, we prevailed on Senator Sani Musa to contest the vacant national chairmanship position of the All Progressives Congress. “ Today, as a group, we’re happy that he heeded our call by purchasing and submitting his nomination and expression of interest form” Lukman stated. He also disclosed  that members of the LPU have finalised plans to storm the Eagle square Abuja in their numbers, ahead of the APC national convention slated for March 26. He stated further that, asides the massive support that the group is drumming for the emergence of Senator Sani Musa, the delegates amongst them were battle ready to cast their votes for the Niger East Senator and sway opinions of other delegates from Ogun State in his favour.