 Chuks Okocha The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) yesterday  said it will this week make a pronouncement on the plethora of court judgments against and in favour of the embattled Governor of Ebonyi state, Chief David Nweze Umahi and the deputy governor , Eric Igwe over their  defection to the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). A Federal High Court, Abuja presided over by  Justice Inyang Ekwo had last week in a suit  declared the seats of Governor Umahi, his deputy, Dr. Eric Kelechi Igwe and those of the15 lawmakers who defected with them to APC vacant. The court order  following two suits brought against them by the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). The judge also ordered the INEC to issue a fresh Certificate of Return to the PDP’s nominees for the vacant executive positions in Ebonyi state without delay. But nearly one week after INEC is yet to comply with the order, although Governor Umahi and the affected members of Ebonyi House of Assembly have since appealed the judgement at the Appeal Court of Nigeria. Also, a High Court in Abakiliki, Ebonyi State has asked Governor Umahi to  remain in office as the Governor of Ebonyi state. However, INEC National Commissioner and Chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee, Festus Okoye, yesterday  said the commission will during the week seat over the court judgments. Speaking on Channels Television breakfast programme Sunrise Daily on the topic: ‘INEC and Court Judgements’ Okoye revealed that the Commission has not received the Certified True Copy of Justice Ekwo’s judgement which went against the Ebonyi State Governor, his deputy and the 15 state house of assembly members. According to him, “the Commission has not been served the judgement of the Federal High Court Abuja in relation with the disputed Ebonyi state governorship seat. As at close of work last Friday, INEC has not been served the Certified True Copy of the judgement of the Federal High Court Abuja”. Okoye also disclosed that as at last  Friday, INEC has received the Abakiliki High Court judgement and that of the Appeal Court but denied receiving the Federal High Court Abuja which came earlier. Asked if it’s not strange that the Abakiliki High Court and Appeal Court judgements which happened later last week have been received by the Commission while the judgement delivered in Abuja are yet to get to INEC, he said it’s not the duty of the Commission to go looking for the Certified True Copy of the judgements. Said he: “Let me say that the judgement of the Federal High Court Abuja has been in the public domain and I have obtained it in my private capacity as a lawyer but the truth is that INEC as a body has not been served.” The INEC top official, however,  said that he  was sure that the Commission will be duly served during the week and the relevant department in the INEC will advise the Commission on the appropriate stand to take on the matter. “I am sure the Commission will receive the Certified True Copy of the judgements and the Legal Department of INEC which has about three Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN) and other experienced lawyers will meet to deliberate on the way forward”, Okoye concluded. The Federal High Court Abuja which sacked Umahi, his Deputy and 15 lawmakers posited that the defectors who were elected on the PDP platform have lost their seats the day the dumped the party for the APC. The Judge stated categorically that: “the votes in any election in Nigeria belong to political parties, and not candidates,” even as Justice Ekwo agreed with the PDP that “by defecting from the party on which they were sponsored and elected, they had resigned or deemed to have resigned from office”. The 15 lawmakers whose seats the court declared vacant include: Odefa Odefa, Victor Uchukwu, Kingsley Ikoro, Benjamin Jununu, Nkemka Okoro, Anthony Nwegede, and Chinwe Nwachukwu. The rest are: Onu Nwonye, Friday Nwuhuo, Moses Odunwa, Chinedu Awo, Chinedu Onah, Chukwuma Igwe, Chukwu Lucas and Francis Nwifuru.