When looking for Places to visit in Australia or any part of the world, the best place to go is the beach. Nothing beats waking up to a beautiful sunrise while hearing the whispers of the ocean. A beach holiday is an ideal way to escape from daily routine. There is just something soothing about the water, the sun, and the way the sand feels on your skin. As a lover of nature, whether you enjoy strolling around the seaside, meditating through the gentle waves, or relaxing on the shores overlooking the Indian Ocean, there is a beach for everyone. Ever heard of the 9 Sunny spots in Hawaii you can’t miss during a vacation? Well, you guessed right, most of those places are beaches. If you are confused about your next vacation destination, below are seven of the most beautiful beaches on the planet. Located in the Philippines, the white beach is ideal for the people who find pleasure in swimming. This beach is regarded as the most famous beaches in Boracay. It provides all beach related activities alongside cafés, clubs, and hotels. Getting accommodation is not a problem, as there are three stations which provide shelter on the beach. These stations are divided according to their luxurious levels. Found on the island of Kauai, Hawaii, the most convenient way to see the Na Pali coast is either through a boat or a canoe. If you feel up to the task of exploring the coast, you could consider hiking through a 22mile round trip. If you are a fan of rock climbing, then this beach is specifically designed for you. Found in Krabi, Thailand, the beachside forms sensational limestone which makes it the perfect location for rock climbing. Situated along the Whitsunday Island in Queensland, Australia, this beach is famous for its strikingly beautiful color. The silica present on the beach creates a dazzling white tone, forming an outstanding contrast with the tropical sea. The beach consists of blue and green waters, various covers, tidal ponds and bays, and sands. Its location makes it ideal for personal meditation as it is hardly ever crowded. At any point when you visualize the perfect beach, it is certain that Bai Sao’s scenery will appear before you. Situated in Phu Quoc, Vietnam, the beach consists of white sands, perfectly clear waters, palm trees which often act as shades and bars. It is the perfect location for anybody hoping to get away from the pressure life brings. Do you love to surf? Bingin Beach is the best spot for surfers. Located in Bali, Indonesia, it offers highly demanding surfing conditions. But if you are not a fan of surfing, and would like to remain on land, the beach’s scenery is great for sunbathing. The island, located in North Still, Maldives, lies upon the residue of marine life alongside layers of living and dead corals. Coconut palms overshadowing thick bushes and strong plants shielding the shores from the dangers of erosion are part of the beach’s characteristics.