 Wale Igbintade The Lagos State Government, yesterday arraigned the Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) driver, Andrew Nice Ominnikoron, before the state High Court, sitting at Tafawa Balewa Square (TBS), over the alleged rape and murder of his passenger, Oluwabamise Ayanwole. Ominnikoron was arraigned before Justice Sherifat Sonaike on a four-count charge bordering on rape, conspiracy and murder preferred against him by the state government. When the matter came up yesterday, the Director of Public Prosecution DPP, Dr Jide Martins, informed the court that the matter was for the arraignment of the defendant. The defendant’s counsel, Mr. Isaac Ezeawem, did not object to the arraignment of the defendant. Martins told the court that the defendant, on November 25, 2021, allegedly raped a 29 year-old lady, Nneka Maryjane Ozezulu, without her consent. He said the incident took place at about 7pm, at Lekki-Ajah Conservation Centre, Lekki Ajah expressway Lagos. The Prosecutor also told the court that Ominnikoron conspired with others now at large and forcefully had sexual intercourse with  22 years old Miss Ayanwole, a fashion designer without her consent and murdered her. Martins said the incident happened on February 25, 2022, at about 8pm, at Lekki-Ajah Conservation expressway and Carter Bridge. He told the court that the defendant and others still at large on February 26, 2022, unlawfully killed one Oluwabamise Ayanwole by throwing her out of a moving bus at Carter Bridge after having canal knowledge of her without her consent. The prosecutor stated that, the offences committed were contrary to and punishable under Sections 411,223,260 and 165 of the criminal law of Lagos State 2015. However, the 47-year-old defendant pleaded not guilty to the charge against him, and as a result, the DPP urged the court to further remand him at the Ikoyi prison and asked for a trial date. Justice Sonaike, therefore, ordered that Ominnikoron should be further remanded at the Ikoyi prison and adjourned the case to May 9, 10 and 11, 2022 for commencement of trial. A Yaba Chief Magistrates’ Court had on March 11, 2022, remanded the defendant in prison custody for 30 days over his alleged involvement in the death of Ayanwole, pending DPP’s legal advice. Magistrate O. A. Salawu made the order following an application by the State Criminal Investigation Department (CID), Yaba, Lagos. Salawu, who stood in for Chief Magistrate Tunbosun Adedayo, ruled that Ominnikoron, should be kept at the Ikoyi prison pending legal advice on the matter from the Lagos State Directorate of Public Prosecution (DPP). The Magistrate adjourned the case till April 11 for DPP’s advice. The police had based its remand application on a temporary four-count charge marked A/26/2022 filed by the Head, Legal Section, Lagos State Police Command, Superintendent Yetunde Cardoso.