 Emmanuel Addeh in Abuja The Governor of Edo state, Mr Godwin Obaseki, has responded to an outburst by his Rivers State counterpart, Nyesom Wike, telling him (Wike) in clear terms that the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) is not his personal property. In an advertorial he personally signed, the Edo state governor accused Wike of incessant attacks,  stressing that he will not tolerate political bullies and overlords. Obaseki reminded his Rivers counterpart of how he had dethroned such bullies and high handed leaders in the past. The cold war between the two leaders got to a head on Saturday when Wike spoke derogatorily about Obaseki’s Deputy, Philip Shuaibu, who had earlier bared his mind on happenings in the PDP. Wike stated that he had written a letter to the National Chairman of the PDP, Iyorchia Ayu, demanding disciplinary action against Shuaibu, for allegedly threatening the party. At a point during his public speech, the Rivers governor went personal against Shaibu, asking rhetorically “Who is his father?, and accused him of impunity and making unwarranted public statements against the party. “This is the thing I am talking about impunity. I was watching when a deputy governor was ranting in the media, threatening the party that there is an alternative to PDP. “This is the same deputy governor (Philip Shuaibu) who knelt down to beg for us to give them an umbrella. Today, he has the effrontery to threaten PDP,” he said. But in defending Shaibu, Obaseki argued that if Ayu, the chairman of the party did not respond to the deputy governor, it was surprising that Wike would engage in publicly denigrating the number two man in Edo state. Obaseki agreed with his deputy that the leaders, executives and members who defected along with him from the All Progressives Congress (APC) had not been accepted, integrated and harmonised into the PDP in Edo state. According to him, his supporters that defected with him were being vilified and ostracised by a group within the PDP led by Chief Dan Orbih, adding that the concerns expressed by his deputy were pertinent. He pointed out that if Wike had thought of showing respect to his colleague governors, he (Wike) would have reached out to him, rather than embarking on what he described as a public onslaught against Shaibu. Stating that nobody was against Wike’s desire to run for president, he advised the Rivers governor not to pursue his ambition in a disruptive manner, urging him to stop using Orbih to orchestrate the destabilisation of the party in the state. Obaseki stated that at no time did Shaibu specifically threaten the PDP, listing several instances where Wike himself publicly denigrated the party. According to the Edo governor, “It clearly amounts to delusion of grandeur for one man to nurse the idea that he owns or has more stake in the PDP and everyone should pander to him.” “While Wike is free to use his resources as he deems fit in pursuit of his ambition, he should not attempt to cow, intimidate, cajole and threaten others into doing his bidding. Edo State cannot and will not be procured for anyone’s personal ambition,” Obaseki insisted. Obaseki maintained that what Nigeria needs now are strong democratic institutions, rather than strong men, reason he as governor will contribute to the building of the party. “Governor Wike and his collaborators, headed by Orbih in Edo will not succeed in destabilising the PDP in Edo state as they did in other states like Cross River just to secure delegates to actualise his alleged personal ambition to run for presidency in 2023. “In Edo we don’t accept political bullies and overlords and historically, we have demonstrated our capacity to unshackle ourselves and dethrone bullies and highhanded leaders,” he stated. Obaseki called on Wike to stop  his unguarded tendencies, noting that if the PDP reins in people with personal interests , it will succeed in its aspiration to take over the leadership of Nigeria.