 An Abuja-based businessman, Dr Ibrahim Bello Dauda, has joined the 2023 presidential race on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Making his formal declaration on Tuesday in Abuja, Dauda detailed his promises and goals, cutting across the economy, digital leadership, insecurity, his character, education and the place of women in his government if elected.He said he was contesting based on pressure from tonnes of people, who, impressed with his credentials, antecedents, achievements, energy, passion for welfare causes and patriotism to Nigeria, asked him to present himself for the office.He said: ‘’Their calls may have been motivated by the fact that in my modest way, I have always intervened with my personal resources and mentorship to contribute my quota towards youth empowerment and development in my corner of the world.“I am genuinely honoured by these calls to serve my country. In deference to these persistent calls, today, I humbly step forward and hereby accept the invitation extended to me by well-meaning Nigerians to contest the position of president of our beloved country under the All Progressives Congress (APC).”Dauda spoke on his kind of leadership which he tagged digital leadership. “Nigeria,” he said, “will continue to depreciate and degenerate on the global progress chart if she keeps on procrastinating on automation and digitalisation of processes within the bureaucracy and services sector.“The entire world has advanced into the digital epoch, we will therefore, be proactive in positioning Nigeria on the path of becoming a digital leader among the committee of nations.” On security, Dauda, a Kanuri from Borno State but born in Jos where he spent his childhood, said: “Jos and Borno State are today hotbeds of insecurity. Anyone will testify that the Jos we know today is not the Jos of the 1980s. How did the City of Tin become a dangerous place to reside?“Why should Borno State be the theatre of terrorism? Why should citizens of Zamfara not sleep with both eyes closed out of fear for their lives? “Why should Nigerians live in constant terror on the roads, farms and homes? Why does the South-east vibrate with gunshots in broad daylight from unknown gunmen and bandits? Why should ritual killers and kidnappers become common features on our highways and forests.“Without security, progress will become elusive. Under my watch, insecurity will be robustly confronted. We shall begin by addressing the welfare of our security personnel who fight in the frontline against crime. No longer shall any of these courageous heroes be sacrificed unnecessarily in their line of duty. “The country will be collaborating with international bodies like NATO, AU, and ECOWAS to invoke and enforce the necessary international protocols that will prevent not just small and light arms but mercenaries and illegal migrants from violating our international borders.“We shall pursue legislation to establish a trust fund, aimed at providing insurance and other added values for journalists and media practitioners. “This we will give them the added capacity to participate more on the coverage of local, continental and global events and activities, which they currently have challenges in covering due to funding and insurance cover challenges.”On the economy, the presidential aspirant said: “The worldwide digital economy is estimated at over $12 trillion which makes up about 15 per cent of the global GDP currently. “Anyone can imagine what this country can do with even a slender percentage of such a vast asset. For starters and to launch our people into the frontline of the global digital revolution, all local regulations preventing Nigerians, especially youth and women, from participating as key players and beneficiaries in the digital space, shall be addressed. “Nigerians, youth and women in particular will be encouraged by training, mentoring, treaties and the enabling legal framework to key into the abundant opportunities in that space and acquire legitimate revenue just as their counterparts currently do in other countries.“We shall deploy innovative science and technology towards improving the nation’s developmental pace. A robust investment in research and development will be made every year. We shall pursue legislations, that will mandate institutions and the private sector to utilise and deploy locally researched solutions and products, as against the incessant importation of sometimes inferior competitions from abroad.”On his educational policies, Dauda said:  “We will work out a policy framework of free education covering between primary to senior secondary school levels in all public schools, as well as encourage entrepreneurial and skills acquisition modules side by side with the normal curricular activities in schools.” The presidential aspirant promised to provide leadership devoid of negative emotions, sentiment and selfish interest. “We shall uphold and strictly enforce the rule of law. Nothing shall be spared in order to give to our compatriots the quality of life they deserve. “Nigeria will not continue to work for the few privileged ones on the Pareto scale. Under our watch, the greatest welfare will be guaranteed for the greatest majority of our men, women, youth and children,” he promised.