 Igbawase Ukumba in Lafia The Chairman of the Media Subcommittee for the National Convention of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and Governor of Nasarawa State, Mr. Abdullahi Sule, yesterday said that all governors elected under the platform of the party were united and working together with other major stakeholders to ensure the success of the March 26 convention. Sule disclosed this in a chat with journalists shortly after the official inauguration of the 34-member committee in Abuja. He said: “In spite of insinuations suggesting division among the party ranks, all governors under the party have met and agreed to work together with other critical stakeholders of the party to ensure the convention holds successfully.” Sule said his committee, which is to be co-chaired by the Minister of Information and Culture, has been mandated to not only promote activities of the APC leading to the convention, but to also promote the party in general. The governor said: “As you know, the governors actually met and we held marathon meetings a few days back. During the meeting, we have been able to bring all the various governors who had different understanding of the convention together. “So, all the governors are working together as a team. We are working together with the leadership of the party, the presidency and most of the major stakeholders.” The media subcommittee chairman explained further that part of the responsibility of his committee was to continue to unite the party, because the APC is the party to beat, and has been growing stronger by the day. Commenting on the stability of the party, Sule commended President Muhammadu Buhari, who, as the leader of the party, has met with various groups and took a position that would further unite the party. “He has been able to bring all the governors together to sit with us, discuss with us and gave us some sense of direction,” he said. Governor Sule equally commended the Chairman of the Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee of the APC, and Governor of Yobe State, Mr. Mai Mala Buni, for his maturity and patience and also for being straightforward with other stakeholders of the party since he returned from his medical trip abroad.