 David-Chyddy Eleke in Awka Ahead of the 2023 presidential election, a group known as We2Geda has launched itself in the South-east zone of the country. The group, which is mostly dominated by youths, stated that it wanted to bring solution to Nigeria’s problems by selecting the best hands to represent the country in the forthcoming general election. Speaking at the weekend, during the launching of the group, its National Convener, Hon Shina Peller, said the movement was not for any other political party, but geared towards ensuring the best hands are selected to man the country. Peller said: “Today, we are launching the We2Geda Movement in the Southeast, which we have successfully done in four geopolitical zones, and this will be the fifth one. “The reason why we are launching this movement is to bring a solution to our problems. Whether we like it or not, the country is suffering from system failure. “We can decide to begin to name different kinds of problems that we have-bad roads, poor educational systems, insecurity and others. “All these things are dividends of failure, and whether we like it or not, we are only telling Nigerians that this is the time for us as Nigerians to rise up and bring solutions to our problem by developing a system. “Nigeria is too big for just one man to build. This is the time as a people that we must develop an institution. We must deviate completely from our normal style of politics where we build and strengthen individuals who would now claim to be bigger than the country, and become demigods. “This is the time that we must develop a system that will put the unity, peace and progress of this country at the forefront. And how do we do that? “We2Geda offers this system because we create a ward to the top level kind of system, where we identify from every ward the deficit in our system and put it together and send to the local government level. “The local government level collates that and sends it to the state level, the state level collates and sends to the geopolitical zone level, and sends to the national level. “We2Geda will identify the leadership quality that we need. This is not the time that we believe that Nigeria needs a messiah. What Nigeria needs is to set up criteria to identify the qualities that we require in a leader.”