Stories by Vanessa Obioha When the Headies holds this year, it will be in a different environment and will record a few changes. At least, this much was gleaned when the organisers gathered music executives, artists and influencers at the Grand Ballroom of Eko Hotels and Suites recently. The event was tagged the ‘Big Announcement’ and the heightened anticipation leading to the D-day achieved the desired effect. Of course, many knew that whatever announcement to be made will revolve around the Headies but the direction was still top secret. Therefore, when Nancy Isime, the host invited Ayo Animashaun, the convener of the awards formerly known as the Hip Hop Awards to make the big announcement, not a few waited with bated breath. First, Animashaun disclosed that the awards will be held in the United States. It will mark the first time the awards is moved base to the international scene since its inception in 2006. Now in its 15th edition, Animashaun told his audience that he deemed it appropriate to take the awards to the city of Atlanta, Georgia, US. Given that Nigerian music is the toast of the world with many artists breaking musical ceilings once perceived as daunting, what better way to celebrate our culture than taking it down to where the big players operate. In a way, this is a smart move by the organisers given that the Headies allure seems to have faded in recent times. When the awards first launched, it was the biggest music reward system in the country. Not only did it shine the lights on artists but gave them a sort of validation. But as controversies began to trail the awards coupled with music superstar absences, many feared that the end was near. But Animashaun, a firm believer in the music industry and the talents that abound, would not bow to pressure. Each edition sees him coming back with more determination. With this announcement, Animashaun rewrote the Headies script to give it better positioning. The move to America is also in collaboration with the US Consulate which continues to strengthen its bilateral relationship with Nigeria through the arts and entertainment. While the Headies’ new location, Cobbs Energy Performing Arts Centre, Atlanta appeared to be the icing on the cake, Isime told the audience that a bigger announcement was yet to be made. Could it be the new talent hunt show Mic Check spearheaded by Eshio Joseph that seeks to make instant music superstars? Or the addition of new categories that will recognise music executives and songwriters? Or perhaps it was the addition of a fashion element to the awards? Or could it be the introduction of a music conference that will have music executives on a roundtable discussion or the inclusion of a music festival? Definitely not the Headies Academy which has been existing for a while now. Alas, the bigger announcement was that the Next Rated, a category that recognises artists with the potential to ‘blow’ — like they say in local parlance — and reward them with a car gift is getting a makeover. For the 15th edition of the awards, the Next Rated will be going home with a Bentley. “We noticed over the years that the winners in this category often give the cars to their managers. We want them to be able to ride the car which is why this year, the winner will be going home with the Bentley 2022 model,” said Animashaun. Going by the cheers and applause that filled the room, this category may be the most contested. It is expected that the new script will be tightly woven to give the audience a musical climax. How these changes will pan out is left to be seen on July 2, 2022, when the Headies holds.