 Uchechukwu Nnaike Among the many factors plaguing the education system in Nigeria, poor teacher quality is of utmost importance because these educators have primary contact with the students. Some schools lack teachers with adequate knowledge about the subject they are required to teach. Apart from these, some teachers are deprived of consistent training to keep them updated with modern educational standards.In realising this, the Nigerian government has been making instructive policies to bring about a robust reform in the sector, especially in the teaching profession, which it plans to make implicitly dynamic, nationally relevant, and globally competitive. The federal government disclosed this during the Seplat Teachers Empowerment Programme (STEP) certificate award ceremony and education roundtable in Benin City, Edo State. While commending the management of Seplat Energy Plc for the committed resources towards nation-building, especially in the area of technological development and promotion of quality education, it stated that the STEP programme fulfils the goal of the federal government and the private sector partnership on education, which is to work together to produce teachers with the requisite knowledge, skills, and desirable attitude.The STEP has been described as a well-needed solution to increase teachers’ qualifications in Edo and Delta. This is the second edition of the programme to improve education standards in Nigeria especially Seplat Energy’s host states and communities.Seplat Energy Plc, one of the indigenous energy companies and its partners, the Nigerian Petroleum Development Company (NPDC), awarded certificates to 220 participants, comprising 214 teachers and six chief inspectors of education in Edo and Delta States under the STEP.Over the years, the company has made significant impacts with critical initiatives focused on providing quality education for states of its operations and the country.To consolidate its achievements on Sustainability Development Goal 4 for inclusive and equitable quality education, the company introduced STEP, a customized training programme for secondary school teachers. STEP is a three-month intensive training programme that equips teachers with tools to teach STEAM (Science, Technology, Engineering, Arts and Mathematics).The company introduced the STEAM learning model to secondary schools in Delta and Edo to promote creative thinking, higher student engagement, and well-rounded education where STEAM are equal contributors to the learning process.In September 2021, the 220 certificate awardees from Delta and Edo States began their training with an initial five-day residential retreat. After that, they continued training via the e-Learning platform developed for the programme.To commemorate the certificate presentation ceremony, Seplat Energy hosted The Seplat JV Education Roundtable, themed ‘Harnessing the Role of Technology In Nigeria’s Education Sector’.The STEP certificate awards ceremony held in Benin City, alongside the Seplat Education Roundtable, had educational experts and professionals in a highly engaging panel session.The keynote speaker for the day was Prof. Fabian Ajogwu, an independent non-executive director at Seplat Energy.The Minister of State for Education, Chukwuemeka Nwajiuba, was represented by Mrs. Muna Onuzo-Adetona, a Special Adviser to the minister. He highlighted some of the federal government’s plans towards the education sector, stating that “the government has developed strategies to attract the best brains to the teaching profession. This development is aimed at motivating teachers to continue to strive for excellence.”He described Seplat as a socially responsible organisation and commended the company for putting in tireless effort in nurturing these beneficiaries.The minister also noted that the STEP programme fulfils the federal government’s goal and the private sector partnership, which is to work together to produce teachers with the requisite knowledge, skills, and desirable attitude.To the teachers, he said, “you have been bequeathed with a solid foundation. “A foundation that enables you to be emotionally, psychologically, socially and technologically prepared to handle the delicate art of teaching across all levels of education.“You represent what is great about this programme. Remember that cultivating a positive emotional disposition, as well as the acquisition of knowledge and pedagogical skill will make you succeed in this profession.“From today, you will not only be transferring knowledge, but you will also be shaping the minds and hearts of these precious children. To quote Aristotle, “educating the mind without educating the heart is no education at all.”The panelists comprised Mr. Yinka Akibu of the United Nations Development Programme; Mr. Kehinde Osinaike of the Federal Ministry of Education; Hon. Sijuade Idowu Tiamiyu of the State Universal Basic Education Board Lagos State; and Ini Abimbola of the Association of Sustainability Professionals of Nigeria. The session was moderated by Dr. (Hon) Mories Atoki.Edo’s Deputy Governor, Philip Shaibu, said, “Education via technology will promote children to be global competitors, and this can only happen through adequate knowledge of technology. I congratulate Seplat Energy on this initiative, and Edo State will continue to partner with the company on education.”While congratulating the beneficiaries, he urged the beneficiaries to use the knowledge acquired from the STEP programme to retrain the students in the state to be global competitors.In his address, Prof. Ajogwu said: “Education is a collective responsibility. What Seplat Energy is doing is noble and commendable. It is supported by both Edo and Delta state governments. These states should be model states that should be emulated. Other corporates should also be invited to do the same. Spending on education gives us future returns than subsiding consumption.”In her remarks, Dr. Chioma Nwachuku, noted that the STEP programme “is important because it plays a key role in the socio-economic growth of the country,” supporting the attainment of quality education. According to her, the objective is to take STEAM education to teachers.In her remarks, the Edo Commissioner for Education, Dr. Joan Oviawe, said, “We are excited by what Seplat Energy is doing for teachers and thank the company for its CSR impact in the educational sector and other sectors.”The objectives of STEP are to: To train secondary school teachers on skills, innovations, and technologies for deploying STEAM to deliver tutelage better to the students; provide and connect teachers to a collection of STEAM resources to enable them to understand, apply and innovate; and provide schools with resources to enable them to provide the right environment for STEAM implementation to enable students engage in the interdisciplinary nature of STEAM.STEP, an annual programme, starts with a five-day residential workshop that provides leadership and self-improvement training, training on STEAM modules and its application to teaching. The teachers were also provided with STEAM gadgets and apps to support their delivery of quality teaching in our host states. Of the teachers empowered, 75 per cent are from public schools while 25 per cent are from private schools.The Delta and Edo education ministries and the Edo Ministry of Science and Technology said they are excited about the programme because of the multiplier effect it will have in secondary education. They expressed their unwavering support for the programme.The testimonies of recipients of the second edition of STEP highlighted the numerous benefits they gained from the programme, including enhancing their creative thinking, allowing for higher student engagement, and offering a well-rounded education.Abioal Stella from Edo College, and Akpoghelie Samson​ Oghale from mixed Secondary Dchool Ukala-Okpunor Delta State​ expressed delight, describing the programme as exceptional and mind blowing. They thanked Seplat for the training over the last six months which they said will enable them to make a positive impact in the classroom.