 APC Presidential Aspirant, Adamu Garba recently paid a courtesy visit to Nigeria General and Statesman, General Aliyu Mohammed Gusau, to seek his support towards his 2023 presidential ambition During the visit, Adamu described the general as a man that has been part and parcel of everything that has to do with the stability and growth of Nigeria over time. He said he was an elder statesman and a responsible leader, who has dedicated so much of his entire career to the growth, development, safety, and security of Nigeria. “So gearing towards the coming 2023 Presidential elections, I believe it’s very important for us to consult with you, learn from your wisdom and take guidance and recommendations in the way we should better handle situations, especially knowing that as young people that are trying to come into the political scene, with a completely different world view of how things should be done to better the lots of this country. I believe it’s very important, particularly you, that we must come to consult with you.” In his reaction, Gen. Gusau expressed confidence in the ability of a youthful president to pilot the affairs of the nation. According to him, “I became a governor when I was 34 years old for a very long time, in 1977. So, I am 80 years old now, so I know when you give a young man a chance, they perform. “But I encourage you to throw your heart into the ring, this time there are many people inside. From the north I am aware of two major candidates, you and the Governor of Kogi State, from the south.” Speaking further, Adamu said to move the country forward, there must be policy trust before we can have meaningful change that can be able to transform into activities within the economy and within the political and security system. “The only way to make this happen is to bring new thinking in the way things are done globally and there are a lot of changes because I have done so many studies in Harvard and Wharton College and I came to discover some gaps in our implementation of policies. “And that is why as a nation, we keep having many of these challenges. If you look at our TFA agreement and WTO membership, it’s very shaky. Our trade facilitation is almost like a black market, so we need to regularize that. “And even with the process we are having now, like almost 75 per cent-dollar economy driven by oil, we must have to liberalize NNPC as much as possible, else the problems of fuel subsidy and fuel scarcity will persist.” Adamu added that there was a need to privatize NNPC and if possible, list it on the global stock exchange just like Saudi Arabia had done with Aramco, “as we have in Petronas in Malaysia, Petrobras in Brazil. “So we can be able to extract more dollars from the global economy, so we can use this dollar to build our infrastructure.” On security, he said, “We didn’t have this harmonized security architecture in the whole country, because when you were there based on the little research we did, you were able to bring almost everyone on board, there is no conflict of interest, there is no conflict of operations, everybody is harmonized, everything is structured, everything is well-coordinated, and that is why we had stability, and the peace and the security we had then. “But now we have this kind of decentralized operations were these are conflicting Nigerians simply because of lack of proper coordination, so we believe that from these from this security and political cycle integration, it is going to help us to bring back the values that we are seeming to be losing in this country in terms of divisions that we have and in terms of confusions that the system has created over time and the generation that is coming up that knows nothing rather than hating the other people that are not like them. So all those things we are going to handle.” Thrilled by his presentation, visibly elated Gusau appreciated Adamu for his courage and intelligence. “I appreciate your wealth of knowledge of many things, particularly, knowing the key issues regarding Nigeria and Nigerians and proffering workable solutions to each one of them. And I say this with all sense of responsibility. “I can assure you that this is a gallant venture you are taking, you may not know it, but you are trying. I appreciate what you have been doing so far. You have my best wishes.”