 Super Eagles striker, Victor Osimhen’s dream of winning the Scudetto with Napoli after the Naples side last won it in 1990 face a big test as they face joint leaders-AC Milan tomorrow in top of the table clash. “We think game after game, the goal can also be the Scudetto,” Osimhen said. Napoli and AC Milan are locked on 57 points at the Serie A summit as the two sides prepare to go head-to-head at Stadio Diego Armando Maradona on Sunday night. Both teams have registered 17 wins, six draws and four losses this season. However, first-place Napoli lead second-place Milan on goal difference. With Inter Milan sitting two points behind (before their outstanding game on Friday night), Sunday’s showdown is a must-win when it comes to the title race. Napoli head into this clash on an eight-game unbeaten streak in Serie A, having picked up five wins and three draws since losing to Spezia just before Christmas. Last time out, Luciano Spalletti’s men claimed a 2-1 victory over top-four chasers Lazio – with Fabian netting a stoppage-time winner. Napoli boast the best defensive record in the Italian top flight, having conceded just 19 goals in 27 encounters this season. When you look at the bigger picture, they have only lost four of their last 36 Serie A matches. That run is thanks to a 12-game unbeaten streak at the beginning of the campaign. On the flip side, Milan recorded a goalless draw with Inter in the first leg of their Coppa Italia semi-final on Tuesday – despite racking up 13 shots. However, it is worth noting that Milan have only managed to win two of their previous six Serie A games and have drawn three of their previous five. Just like Napoli, Milan’s record across the past year is hugely impressive. Indeed, Stefano Pioli’s side have lost only four of their past 32 Serie A outings. Given that Milan have avoided defeat in each of their previous six away games in Serie A, they will fancy their chances of getting something from Sunday’s clash. In the reverse fixture back in December, Napoli secured a 1-0 victory over Milan at the San Siro. That means Milan have only managed to win one of their last five Serie A meetings with Napoli. The Rossoneri have also lost each of the previous two without scoring a single goal.