Plans are in top gear to make this year’s International Arts and Crafts (INAC) Expo bigger and more culture-friendly. This revelation was given by the Director General of National Council for Arts and Culture (NCAC), Otunba Segun Runsewe, in his office when he received in audience the Ambassador of the People’s Republic of Turkey, His Excellency, Hidayet Bayraktar who visited him in his office. Runsewe, who expressed delight in the visit of the envoy, said the diplomatic relationship between Nigeria and the Republic of Turkey dates back to 1962 and has since grown with much strength and friendliness. The NCAC boss in a preamble to this year’s INAC Expo, said the diplomatic community will be hosted by the Council to a pre-INAC dinner where the diplomatic community would unwind and share ideas on their experience and expectation leading to the INAC Expo in August this year. Runsewe promised to deepen the participation of the Republic of Turkey by providing a media platform where the country will showcase its cultural potentials. The Ambassador of the Republic of Turkey thanked Runsewe for opening his doors to receive them which according to him, is a huge sign of hospitality. The Ambassador said Nigeria and the Republic of Turkey have deep cultural heritage which he hoped could be harnessed. He added that his embassy has facilities for exhibitions and hopes to partner with NCAC to put them into proper use. Ambassador Bayraktar also revealed that the Turkish Embassy has concluded arrangements with the Nigerian Television Authority (NTA) to be featured in a culture-related programme on Saturday to showcase their country’s tea and coffee health benefits. The envoy revealed that a number of Nigerian students who graduated from schools in Turkey have formed an alumni in Nigeria adding that the alumni will be celebrated by the embassy in April this year. Also to deepen ties with Nigeria, according to the Ambassador, two universities will be visiting Nigeria to conduct screening exercises for intending Nigerians with a view to offering them scholarships. The Ambassador opined that the Council should create a platform where there would be a strong collaboration between Nollywood and the Turkish Embassy to showcase both countries’ rich cultural heritage through films. The high point of the courtesy call was the exchange of gifts from the Ambassador and the NCAC boss.