 Ibrahim Oyewale in Lokoja Piqued by the recent pronouncement by the Kogi State Commissioner for Environment, Mr. Victor Omofaye, banning the production of charcoal in the state, a human rights  group,  Conscience for Human Rights and Conflict Resolution (CHRCR), has described the policy  of the state government as draconian  and anti-people policy. The state government had through the state commissioner for environment last Friday banned the production of charcoal and indiscriminate tree felling in the state. However, in a statement issued by the Executive Director, CHRCR, Mililki Idris Abdul, described the banning of charcoal in the state by the commissioner as an after-thought and a misplaced priority. Abdul explained that the media reports in the last few days suggested that those who came up with that reactionary pronouncement are not in tune with the reality of the situation on ground. According to him, “In the first instance, is the production of charcoal on in Kogi State a crime? Are we in a military regime in the state? Despite the numerous environmental challenges facing the state that is not being attended to by the ministry of environment, where was the stakeholders’ meeting that agree on that draconian policy? Was it ever discussed at the state executive council meeting and when? How can someone wake to say no one can transport charcoal across the 21 local government areas of the state? “We call on the state governor to talk to his appointees to consult widely before making policies that don’t have any meaningful impact, and being unsustainable on the people. If the people can produce charcoal, why can’t they buy and bring to the state for their usage? If anyone travels to Federal Capital Territory (FCT), charcoal is seen everywhere. “We call on the commissioner and the Ministry of Environment to reason properly  and rescind this unpopular policy of banning  the production, transportation, usage of charcoal in the state in the interest of people, peace and the economic realities in Nigeria and Kogi State. A government that is paying percentage salaries cannot sustain such unpopular and reactionary policy.” The state government had banned the production of charcoal across the 21 local government areas of the state. The state Commissioner for Environment, Hon. Victor Adewale Omofaiye, disclosed this in a statement sent to journalists last Friday. Omofaiye explained that charcoal production in the state is illegal and highly prohibited, warning that any person or group of persons caught producing or in possession of the product shall be arrested and prosecuted in the court of law.