 Deji Elumoye The Presidency Tuesday accused the main opposition political party, the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), of hatching plans to cause mayhem and destabilize the country. It also accused some individuals within the opposition party of masterminding the current energy crisis facing the country, making particular reference to the party’s verdict that Nigeria could be faced with a worse uproar than the#EndSARS experience if the fuel crisis persists. PDP in a statement issued recently by its spokesman, Debo Ologunagba, the PDP had lamented the current general situation of things in the country, paying particular attention to the lingering fuel scarcity nationwide, blaming the ruling party, the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the President Muhammadu Buhari-led government for the situation and warning it could lead to grave reactions from the citizens. The Presidency, in a statement issued by Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Mr. Femi Adesina, stressed that the PDP’s warning had exposed its real intention of using the current situation to cause mayhem, hoping to use same situation to get back to power. According to the release: “The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has given itself away as being interested only in the destabilization of the country, peradventure it could then sneak its way back to power. “Less than 24 hours after the Department of State Services (DSS) raised alarm about sinister plots by some elements to cause disorder in the land, using the energy crisis as a smokescreen, the PDP issued a statement, saying; ‘Our party fears that the situation is getting to a boiling point and can trigger a nationwide agitation that might be worse than the October 2020 EndSARS if not addressed immediately’. “Which patriotic political party or organization ever threatens its country with anarchy, social upheaval and disorderliness, except one still smarting from its snout being yanked from the honeypot, as happened to PDP in 2015? “But we wish to remind the now tepid opposition party that it was Nigerians that gave it the boot 7 years ago, and those same Nigerians have not forgotten the travails they experienced, at a time the country was awash with money: no power, no infrastructure, insurgents ran riot round the nation, and our collective patrimony was looted blind. Those same Nigerians are not ready for another PDP misrule, not now, and perhaps not for a long time to come. “Rather than plot and encourage ‘agitation worse than October 2020 EndSARS’, which it may well be conceiving, the PDP should work for harmony and cohesion in the country, if it ever understands such concept. “EndSARS signified murder, mayhem, mass destruction, even cannibalism. PDP now wishes Nigeria something worse. “A presidential aspirant of the PDP has warned that the party would die by 2023, unless it wins the Number One position in the country. And die it would, if the party wishes the country nothing except something worse than EndSARS”.