 Committed to strengthening its cultural diplomacy with Nigeria, the United States Arts Envoy was recently in Nigeria to entertain, educate and collaborate with Nigerian creatives. Starting from March 13 to 23, the visiting U.S. Arts Envoy and classical pianist, Pauline Yang, played to packed houses, taught emerging and established musicians through masterclasses across Abuja, Lagos, and Ibadan. Pauline who performed to a Lagos audience alongside the United States Ambassador Beth Leonard on Friday, March 18, at Terra Kulture Arena mesmerised many with her dexterity on the piano. Cumulatively, she performed American, European, and Mexican piano compositions to over 1,000 guests who enjoyed a world-class classical concert at the Chief of Mission Residence in Abuja, Consul General Residence in Lagos, Terra Kulture Arena in Lagos, and at the Manhattan Hall in Ibadan. Her selection of pieces included a delightful mix of composers, styles, and eras from the piano literature featuring works by Bach, Scarlatti, Mendelssohn, Chopin, Rachmaninoff, Schumann, Liszt, and Bolcom. She began each of her concerts with Sicilienne, an original orchestral piece by the famous French composer Gabriel Faure, with Ambassador Mary Beth Leonard on flute. Her impressive performance of Liszt’s Hungarian Rhapsody No. 11, an exciting piece considered quite complex and challenging elicited wide applause from audiences across the three cities. Pauline’s passion for music and desire to share knowledge with aspiring young artists, as well as her passion to explore other cultures, resulted in tremendous appreciation from music students, art enthusiasts, Nigerian cultural leaders, and alumni of U.S. government exchange programs. In an interview, she explained to students that U.S. universities encourage musicians to double major in a subject outside of music. She described what prospective Nigerian students can expect in terms of curriculum and opportunities for studying music in the United States. “It has been so wonderful for me to see and feel the warmth of the Nigerian people,” Pauline said. “I am so lucky to be here in Nigeria on behalf of the U.S. Department of State as an Arts Envoy. My experience has been nothing short of amazing.” Her cultural diplomacy visit to Nigeria was sponsored by the U.S. Department of State’s Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs with support from the U.S. Mission in Nigeria. The Public Affairs Sections of the U.S. Mission in Nigeria, in Abuja and Lagos, support programs that bring American cultural leaders to Nigeria to meet, exchange ideas and collaborate with Nigerian cultural leaders.