 Omolabake Fasogbon An independent media agency, SBI Media has expanded its footprint  in global  marketing service with its affiliation with international marketing and communications group, Stagwell global. SBI Media officially announced its partnership with Stagwell at a media parley in Lagos, recently. Stagwell, a challenger holding company and a global network boasts top-flight creative, research, and media expertise built to transform marketing. Both organisations will be leveraging their expertise and strengths to deliver top-notch service to growing sophisticated consumers. By the partnership, SBI Media will be able to collaborate with agencies across Stagwell’s network to scale omnichannel media, content, and production capabilities for top brands while Stagwell would harness SBI’s rapidly growing digital and traditional media environment with a hyper-localized approach. Speaking on the partnership, Group Managing Director of  SBI Media, Rotimi Bankole stated that the the new development was apt given the  commonality of vision between organisations to transform marketing communications. “Our strategic affiliation with Stagwell is now activated . We are proud to take on the next level of our business growth with such partnership across the board that will not only extend to clients with the best in class performance that they expect, but also clearly fulfils our vision to share SBI’s outstanding insights into African audiences, media, and markets. “The Stagwell partnership with SBI is a strategic one and something challenging because they are bringing what is unusual into the marketing sphere and they look for an agency of repute, record, with African genuineness, African story of starting from the scratch who grows from nothing to become big.” On his part, Chairman and CEO of Stagwell, Mark Penn informed that the new business formation would empower Stagwell to scale its  modern marketing expertise across six continents. He added, “By 2025, two-thirds of African households are expected to have increased consumer power in the global economy. As a worldwide leader in culture-moving creativity and modern marketing services, Stagwell’s growth in the region will guide global brands to engage authentically with consumers across Africa.” Penn also announced the extension of Stagwell business the information technology space. Commenting, Assistant General Manager of SBI Media United Kingdom,  Samuel Odusami said, “In the next few years, we are going to leverage this partnership for global ambition and relevance impact. It is a very good feeling when you know you have a global team behind you.”