Some youths from the north have advocated for power shift to the south ahead of the 2023 general elections. The group, under the aegis of Northern Youths for Good Governance, in a statement on Thursday, said it has adopted renowned philanthropist, Amb. Funmi Ayinke, as its consensus presidential candidate. In the statement signed by its president, Comrade Ibrahim Abdulsalami, the group said of all aspirants from the south, Ayinke thicks all the boxes even though she is yet to formally declare her intention to contest. Abdulsalami said the north is impressed with Ayinke’s credible disposition to growth and development of the country ably “evident in her track record that speaks volumes of an unparalleled and committed Nigerian burning with a passion for contributing her quota to the entrenchment of democracy as well as availing Nigerians the dividends of democracy”. He further noted that “she is a round peg in a round hole, and only her can galvanize the needed votes across the north as a southern candidate”. The northern group, therefore urged the south to embrace their own and endorse Ayinke for president. Read full statement below: The Northern Youths for Good Governance is issuing this press statement in light of the prevailing circumstances with regards to the 2023 general elections in the country. There have been various agitations for power shift to the Southern part of the country, which has its merits given the need for an equitable representation in governance in the country. We hold the firm view that the southern part of the country has contributed immensely to the sustenance of democracy in the country, the undeniable fact that the region is deserving of a shot at governance at the highest level. In the light of the above and the prevailing circumstances, we wish to inform members of the general public of our endorsement of Ambassador Funmi Ayinke as a suitable candidate for the presidency from the Southern region. We are impressed with her credible disposition to growth and development of the country, which has been ably evident in her track record that speaks volumes of an unparalleled and committed Nigerian burning with a passion for contributing her quota to the entrenchment of democracy as well as availing Nigerians the dividends of democracy. We wish to state that Ambassador Funmi Ayinke indeed has what it takes to turn the country’s fortunes around for good, given her track record of the industry, intelligence and patriotism over the years that have witnessed tangible gains in service to the country. That Ambassador Funmi Ayinke has indicated an interest in the presidency of Nigeria is indeed a piece of cheering news that should elicit the much-needed support from the nook and cranny of the country. The Northern Youths for Governance believes she is a round peg in a round hole, and only her can galvanize the needed votes across the north as a southern candidate. She is at home with our brothers and sisters from all parts of the country, including the northern part of the country. Her philanthropic activities have been intensely felt. We believe that the various stakeholders from the Southern part of the country need to take their power shift agitation seriously by quickly convening a gathering that would article the necessity for adopting the zoning of political offices in Nigeria. This is on the heels that Ambassador Funmi Ayinke has in her kitty an impressive track record in administration and leadership which are necessary criteria for anyone desirous of leading the country at the highest level. We wish to state that Ambassador Funmi Ayinke has all it takes to lead this country. She has displayed a solid commitment to developing our teeming youthful population. She is adored by our youths and women who have benefited immensely from her wealth of experience in ways too numerous to mention. The Northern Youths for Good Governance sees Ambassador Funmi Ayinke as a detribalized Nigeria. She knows no religion or ethnicity in all her endeavours. We must admit that Nigeria needs a leader who would serve as a uniting factor in the country. We, therefore, call on all well-meaning individuals and groups to adopt Ambassador Funmi Ayinke as the consensus candidate for the Office of President of Nigeria. Her towering personality and credentials are impressive and needed in this critical point of our existence.