 • Summons contractors to Abuja Kasim Sumaina in Kano The Minister of Transportation, Mr. Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi, yesterday gave a stern warning to China Civil Engineering and Construction Company (CCECC), the major contractor handling the ongoing Kano-Kaduna rail project for deliberately slowing down the pace of work, thereby playing politics with the project. Amaechi added that he was going to report the company to Mr. President and Nigerians in general to know exactly what is delaying the project set for commissioning by 2023. The minister, while speaking to the press on the sidelines shortly after inspecting facilities on the rail corridor, said: “CCECC is playing politics with the project.” According to him, “The speed is extremely slow. They are supposed to have over 2,000 equipment on this project, they have just 541 so far. “They claimed that over 300 are in Kaduna. We have sent a team to check. But even if you add that, you will still have just over 800. Just over 800 equipment compared to 2,000 means something is wrong somewhere. “I think the CCECC is beginning to play politics. They should move away from politics and focus on construction. And I think they need to complete the Kaduna-Kano rail as planned. I won’t say more than this until we meet with CCECC on Wednesday.” Speaking further, Amaechi said: “I know they will claim that we haven’t funded them, but part of their responsibility in the contract is for them to look for the money. “CCECC hasn’t given us money. Chinese haven’t given us money. So they can’t afford to delay it because is their responsibility to look for the money.” He added: “That’s what the CCECC must do. But I will address the press and Nigerians on Wednesday after we meet with CCECC. If there is no difference, I will tell the country what’s going on. “I think what they are doing is delay the project for this government to come to end,” he stressed. He maintain that the report from the project consultant show the project is just about five percent completed, which is unacceptable. Speaking also on the Port Harcourt to Maiduguri narrow gauge project awarded to CCECC, Amaechi revealed that the contractor would  explain why they’ve not mobilised to site after they’ve received some payment.