 Gilbert Ekugbe The Institute of Directors (IoD) has partnered the University of Lagos to build skills and manpower required to achieve rapid socioeconomic development for Nigeria. The president, IoD, Mrs. Ije Jidenma, at a high delegation visit from the University of Lagos, explained that would be most delighted to collaborate with the University of Lagos to help effectively build manpower with the right mindset and practical orientation that will accelerate the process of socioeconomic development in Nigeria. She said the Institute has made significant and highly impressive strides working closely with the government, corporate organisations, bilateral chambers and diplomatic missions to raise the standards of corporate governance and leadership in both the private and public sectors. “We are determined to make significant difference in our country. We equip our directors through training, capacity building and ethical orientation that will contribute greatly to business and enterprise development,” she said According to her, over the years, the Institute has taken its place as the perfect professional body in Nigeria with a mandate to cater for and represent directors in their individual capacities across the various sectors of the economy. “Our collaborative drive with the University of Lagos is borne out of the need to tap into the diversity of viewpoints often incubated in the University ecosystem, because this is where intellectualism resides. This is where idea thrives and so many things that can lead us into the transformational and innovative solutions,” she said. Earlier, the Vice Chancellor, University of Lagos, Mr. Oluwatoyin Ogundipe, said the visit was to seek collaboration with IoD especially in the area of training. “We have our University of Lagos Business School which is doing well. We want to have that collaboration to have your own customized programme that we can run along with you. We also thought that there are some directors in the affairs of running the school who would need your expertise in training and manpower development, so there is also a need for us to register with IoD so that we will able to have that handshake from town to gown. We look forward to having a collaboration with you that will even lead to having a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) to strengthen the relationship, “he said.