 Ibrahim Oyewale in Lokoja The Chairman, House Committee on Federal Road Safety Commission (FRSC), Mr. Akinfolarin Mayowa Samuel, has disclosed that there must be collaborative efforts between the government and the private sector in the management of Nigerian roads, stressing that the government cannot do it alone. Samuel, who made this known while speaking  when the Committee on Road Safety Commission visited the Obajana Cement plant at Obajana, Kogi State, at the weekend. He explained that the challenges of road infrastructure in Nigeria cannot be fixed by the Dangote Group alone, as he commended various interventions by the group which were highly appreciated by the members of the House of Representatives. Samuel, who bemoaned the traffic gridlock at Kabba Junction in the state, urged the company to step up its interventional scheme by easing traffic jam, adding that the Lokoja-Kabba road is sensitive and central to the road network in the country. He said: “Permit me to say thank you for what Dangote is doing. The problem of Nigeria cannot be solved by one person. I must say that the country is lucky to have a company like Dangote. Let me add also that we are critical stakeholders.  That is why we are here to complement your effort.” The lawmaker urged the company to support the government in the areas of road expansion, and dualisation, saying the government was grateful for all the interventions in the country. In his response, Dangote Cement National Director of Logistic, Mr. Carlos Juan Rincon, said the company would not rest on its oars in the areas of infrastructural development of the country. According to him, even though it is the responsibility of the government to provide road infrastructure, the company will continue to lend a helping hand, as exemplified by the construction of Nigeria’s longest concrete road in Kogi State. Rincon said the Lokoja road is being overstretched because other roads linking the North and the South are grossly in a state of disrepair. Spokesman of the FRSC, Bisi Kazeem, commended the Dangote Group for making the visit of the lawmakers a success. “For the fact that the committee has visited, and there is a partnership between the government and private sector, it shows that Nigeria is working. I think we should give kudos to the Dangote Group,” he said. Speaking also, the Bajana of Obajana Land, Oba Idowu Senibi, described Dangote as Godsend for his numerous interventions, adding that he can, however, do more to support the government in road construction and rehabilitation. He suggested the construction of a bypass and crossover road to support the Dangote Cement trailer to further help the flow of traffic. In the same vein, the Olu Apata, Dr. Frederick D.O. Balogun, expressed appreciation, and pledged his community’s continuing support for the company. He, however, said his community has also embarked on community service to support the government and the company.