 The 18th St. George’s Ambulance Foundation is set to hold in Abuja on the 25th of May, 2022, according to the  organisers. A statement signed by the Foundation’s Vice Chairman, Board of Trustees, Engr. Adams Hamzat, the event billed for Transcorp  Hotel, Abuja will give honorary awards and investiture to some personalities in recognition of their leadership roles and service to humanity. According to Hamzat, who doubles as  National Coordinator of the foundation, eminent personalities to be awarded include former military President and Head of State, Gen. Ibrahim Badamosi  Babangida, GCFR, who is the Grand Patron of the foundation, former President Goodluck Jonathan, GCFR, (Great Grand Patron), former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar, GCON, (Life Patron). The Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi (Ojaja11), will be the royal father of the day. His national peace  initiatives and remarkable contributions during the heat of Covid-19 will also  be rewarded. Others to be awarded are the National Leader of the All Progressives  Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, the Attorney-General and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, SAN, Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola, SAN, Minister of Communication and Digital Economy, Dr. Isa Ali Pantami, Managing Director, National Inland Waterways, Chief (Dr) George Moghalu, Alhaji Abdullahi Abubakar Maikano, Administrative Officer to the President, Managing Director, Passmark Construction Limited, Chief Paul Onwuakpaoke Kanu, DIG Abdulmajid Ali (rtd), Hon. Oladipupo Adebutu, Ambassador Abazie Ifeanyi and former Governor of Ondo State, Dr. Olusegun Mimiko for.his.innovative Mother and Child Hospital. The list also include the Executive Chairman, Federal Inland Revenue Service, Muhammad Mamman Nami and Ezeani of Mmaku Kingdom, Enugu State, Igwe Maduabushi Nevobasi. The statement further stated that St. George’s Ambulance Foundation is the foremost humanitarian organisation that has championed emergency ambulance services in Nigeria.