 Omon-Julius Onabu As the battle for the gubernatorial ticket of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) intensifies with increased tempo of political activities in Delta State, Senator James Manage has begun the process of strengthening his position with consultative meeting with statutory delegates from three local government areas of the state. Senator Manager, who represents Delta South district, met yesterday with delegates from Bomadi, Patani, and Burutu, assuring of “increased tempo in Rural Transformation, Urban Renewal, Education and Agriculture” as major areas the state would witness accelerated development when he becomes governor. Taking the excited delegates through memory lane regarding his sojourn in politics beginning with the Social Democratic Party (SDP) in the defunct Bendel State as a Law Practitioner with Brodrick Bozimo & Co. in Warri on the platform of the Grassroot Democratic Movement (GDM), he hinted at his first elective position in 1991, stressing that he was well prepared for the responsibilities of the office of governor in a multi-ethnic state like Delta. Manager said: “I contested as Chairman of Council in Bomadi Local Government Area and won; and, then proceeded as a commissioner in Felix Ibru government to become the pioneer chairman of our great party, the PDP in Delta State, being one of its founding fathers. “I have worked faithfully for the state and it’s leaders to become governors, from the time of Olorogun Ibru to Governor Ifeanyi Okowa, the incumbent. I have served sincerely and, I’d say, I have also benefited. “I have education, records of dedicated service and experience counting for me in this election; and, it is my hope that Deltans will give me a chance. By the grace of God, I will celebrate with you all the victory, both in the primary and general elections.” He noted that he does not fret or get agitated over the race for the governorship as he believed that enduring power is a divine gift from God Almighty. “I’d say that even where nobody had given me a chance God has always been kind; and, I strongly believe that He has prepared me for this battle. By May 2023, we will continue where our Gov Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa stop. He has worked very well for the state and its people and we will support him to finish well. Governor Okowa and I have come a long way and that relationship will continue for the good of Deltans,” the senator further said. Moreover, he promised to assemble a team of experts and professionals to midwife the process for greater prosperity of Delta State, saying the state would witness unprecedented development under his watch if given the chance. He pleaded with the delegates to support him for the future of the Delta State and the well-being of it’s people as well as for generations yet unborn. Above all, the peace and security of this state will never be compromised under a Governor Manager administration, he said.