 Yinka Kolawole in Osogbo A political group headed by former Speaker, Osun State House of Assembly, Adejare Bello, at the weekend gave full support for presidential aspirant under All Progressives Congress(APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu ahead of 2023 general election. The group, Bola Ahmed Tinubu Our Choice(BATOC) 2023, during its  official inauguration in Osogbo, pledged  to use their resources to rally support for Tinubu to emerge as the president in 2023. The Director-General of the group, Dr. Isiaka Ayodele Owoade, said: “The convener of our group, former Osun State House of Assembly speaker and Nigeria’s Ambassador to Mexico, Adejare Bello is resolute on the candidacy of Tinubu. Our choice in Tinubu is also because he stood true to his progressive credentials and precedence.” He said Tinubu planned,  plotted, co-hatched the biggest and most successful political coalition of all times in Africa – the All Progressive Congress(APC). “Asiwaju has paid his dues and this is the time to reward him. He has built bridges. He has built leaders. He is a rare-breed Nigerian and Nigeria must not lose the opportunity of his presidency for another he may never come again,” he said. He added: “BATOC23 decision is in glaring realities of the difference Tinubu has made in people’s lives, in expanding economic opportunities, in the transformation of his state’s physical infrastructure, and in steering Nigeria into a new and progressive course. His politics is better reflected in the context of his socio-economic objectives while he has excelled in tackling these noble tasks. Talking of resilience and consistency, BATOC23 believes Tinubu was the arrowhead of a stable, robust opposition culture for 15 years while the Peoples Democratic Party(APC) ruled at the centre. He further stressed that Tinubu has contributed immensely and painstakingly to Nigeria’s democracy. “Asiwaju towers above all the other aspirants, hidden and known, and it might be a no-contest at the end of the day. Without mincing words and any fear of equivocation, all objective Nigerians will attest to the sterling qualities of Asiwaju as a visionary leader, a builder of bridges a builder of leaders.  We have decided to support Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu because in him lies the solution to Nigeria’s hydra-headed challenges of