Ogiame Atuwatse III: I Am Coming You know I have never seen anything so colourful just yet. The Olu of Warri’s coronation caught my attention in such a way that I still cannot explain. His good looks,  beautiful wife depicted a Disney fairy tale. It was beautiful, expansive and deeply romantic. The part that killed me, was when he was asked to pick a sword that would delineate his reign and give him his name. He was blindfolded and he chose one sword. Ohhhhhhh, mbok I died. I screamed, tears dropping from my eyes. I said waaaatisssssdisssss!!!!  It was indeed so beautiful. Duchess was just looking at me like – what is wrong with this one, his sugar level must have gone up again, mad man. Anyways, when I now met His Excellency, Chief James Ibori, I mentioned this and told him I would like to do a play on the Iwere people – my new people. He smiled and said, “When you are ready, let me know.” So that was how I reached out to the famous writer and director, William Benson and said, “Do me a very powerful Iwere script, we must celebrate this majestic culture.” The next day, I approached Evans Jakpa-Johns while at lunch at Ken Etete’s office – that is where we all eat free food every day. We are plenty o – Orphans o. Evans, Lami, Dipo and Alaba. We will be pretending that we are discussing business. Na lie, na the food o. Anyway, that was how prominent businessman and the one they call the Gas King- Julius Rone entered the matter and the whole thing just changed o. Within seconds, he had reached the Olu and instantly we got a date for a courtesy call. Finally, The Duke will meet the Olu of Warri. Mbok I have been screaming o, running around stark naked in utter disbelief. So, me, I will now meet this incredibly beautiful couple. A king who has brought in a lot of colour and panache to the throne of his forefathers. Mbok, I have ordered a completely new Ibibio apparel complete with walking stick and have hired six virgins that will hold my wrapper as I walk majestically towards the Olu trying to do like the legendary Okotie Eboh. The only problem is that when I wear Ibibio wrapper, I don’t usually wear undies so that the breeze can blow me well. Should I do the same here? Please can any Itsekiri man call and advise me, would I be expected to bow or kneel so I know what to do o, cos it will not be funny if I am not wearing anything under and they say I should bow and expose the ‘ibibio crown’ jewels ooo. I don’t want anybody to come and banish me o. We need to do this play o. Kai. They say I am crazy. DJ Cuppy: I Know the Feeling You know I once proposed to her and she ignored me. She did not only ignore me, she did not even as much as give me ‘isho’ which is the worst thing you can do to a man. Anyways, I immediately moved her to ‘sister zone’. So, when I saw the write up with the caption, ‘sometimes I feel I am not good to be here,’ I was touched. Sister, you are more than good for anywhere let alone Oxford University. You have the strength, the motivation of a thousand mules and a lot of us here are hailing you and pushing for you in our prayers. I know the feeling. When I failed Form Four three times and I was kicked out of school, my father took me to go and learn mechanic in Shomolu. After some days buying Amala and Ewedu for Baba Raimi and all his girlfriends, I went back to my father and said, “Please sir, I don’t want to be a mechanic again, I want to go back to school.” He agreed and sent me to ‘Igbobi 2’ now Angus Memorial High School. I got there with the lowest self-esteem and with no desire or drive. I wasn’t sure of myself having failed out of Command and doing mechanic for a bit. I didn’t feel I belonged and certainly felt like I didn’t have the intellectual ability to make it in school. Then I met this light skinned girl. Her name was Bose; very beautiful but could not speak English. I was among the few who could speak English so we went into a deal. She will allow me hug her three times daily and I will teach her English. The hugs, my sister, motivated me to be going to school o. When she hug me ehn, I will put my head on her chest and she will hold me and all my problems will disappear o. That was how I became a teacher for her o. She was such a hungry student. She wanted to learn everything that the teachers were not doing for her as she needed personalised tutoring. I taught her Chemistry, Arts, Biology everything and the hugs increased to five a day. By WAEC, I don dey peck for cheeks o. So, I had to read and be attentive in class so that I could teach my student well, which also improved me. When WAEC came, I came out with three A and Three C and she came out with 5 C. She came to thank me with a big hug and a big kiss on the lips, I nearly died. But seriously, I took her to one side and thanked her and told her my story and she almost cried. So, lo ro kan, my dear Cuppy, find strength in anything. Could be your dog, your music, your family, even me, and go ahead and fulfil your destiny. You are a blessed child and this generation will be the greatest with superstars like you. God bless you.