*Northern group rallies support for CBN gov’s presidencyChiemelie Ezeobi, Uzoma Mba in Lagos and Igbawase Ukumba in Lafia A civil society organisation, Save Nigeria Project (SNP), has alleged that desperate politicians have approached it and other credible groups to launch a million-dollar smear campaign against President Muhammadu Buhari; his economic agenda, as well as the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Mr Godwin Emefiele and his monetary policies.This is coming as the Unified Northern Nigeria Youth Forum (UNNYF) yesterday stormed Nasarawa State in continuation of its consultations with relevant stakeholders in the northern states to put pressure on Emefiele to contest for the President of Nigeria come 2023. SNP disclosed the alleged smear campaign plot yesterday at a World Press Conference on 2023 and the State of the Nation, held in Lagos, which had in attendance, representatives from Arewa Consultative Youth Movement, All Progressives Congress (APC) Young Professionals Movement, and Niger Delta Youth Vanguard. Others include the Yoruba Council of Youths, Igbo Youth Movement, Middle Belt Youth Movement, South East Youth Assembly and Lawyers in Defence of Democracy.SNP Convener, Mr Peter Abang, said they alerted the public to disregard the smear campaigns once they kicked off. He said: “The Save Nigeria Project will also take advantage of this briefing to alert the world on the activities of desperate politicians ahead of the 2023 general election.“We have been approached and we believe, many other credible groups have also been approached by some desperate politicians of questionable character with a pool of funds of up to one million Dollars to be allegedly shared by consenting groups for a massive smear campaign against the person of President Buhari, his economic agenda, the person and office of Mr Godwin Emefiele and his policies in the CBN. “We have outrightly rejected the offer. Nigerians should note that once this condemnable project starts, they should disregard it and treat them with the disdain they deserve,” he explained.He said part of the plan by those behind the plot was to clone and impersonate credible groups to churn out lies and misrepresentation of facts. Passing a vote of confidence on President Buhari, SNP said the country has been on a steady march towards development since 2015, adding that more infrastructural growth has been recorded than at any other time.“The unprecedented revolution in the agricultural sector cannot be overemphasised in discussing the state of the nation today. “Until President Buhari came to power, no Nigerian had ever seen massive pyramids built with only rice paddy.“Nigeria was never rated as a global producer of rice before 2015 but now it is a super force in global rice production and no longer a dumping ground for spoilt unhealthy rice from Asia and other parts of the world.“On the economic front, we note that the latest figures from the National Bureau of Statistics show that inflation is going down. This shows a positive trajectory and recovery for the economy. “Through the various Social Intervention Programmes now domiciled in the Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, the federal government has lifted millions out of penury and joblessness into economic productivity and prosperity.“The economy has also expanded and fortified against global shocks in record time, beating the projection of financial experts, the country has exited recession. Available data also show economic growth which is more than the projections. “It is given this favourable assessment of our country’s leadership and the state of the nation this first quarter of 2022 that we as a civil society organisation pass a vote of confidence on President Muhammadu Buhari, his economic agenda and the monetary policies of the Central Bank of Nigeria ably led by Mr Godwin Ifeanyichukwu Emefiele”.The group commended APC for “zoning power to the South in the interest of peace and inclusiveness,” urging other political parties to do the same. It said the country should have a president that would continue to consolidate and expand the vision, as well as the landmark legacy of Buhari, adding that a thorough professional of Igbo extraction should succeed the president next year. SNP also called on Buhari to support a candidate who embodies a winnable personality and ticks all the numerous boxes, adding that it should be someone he would be proud of. “It is after a very rigorous search that we have come to the unequivocal and emphatic conclusion that only one man fits this description and we make bold to present to Mr President for his endorsement and to Nigerians for their massive support, Mr Godwin, Ifeanyichukwu Emefiele, the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria for President, 2023. Emefiele has shown unprecedented sagacity as Governor of the country’s central bank. “His initiatives for small, medium and large scale enterprises have been unprecedented. In manufacturing, oil and gas, agriculture, trade and commerce, the signature of the CBN Governor has been very clear and precise.“The numerous interventions of the bank under high standard supervision is second to none. Rice farmers in our country have never had it so good in our entire history,” the group added.Northern Group Rallies Support for Emefiele’s Presidency In a related development, a northern group, UNNYF yesterday stormed Nasarawa State in continuation of its consultations with relevant stakeholders in the northern states to put pressure on Emefiele to contest for the President of Nigeria come 2023. Addressing stakeholders in Lafia, the Nasarawa State capital, the spokesperson of the youth group, Mr Aliyu Muhammad Sani, said the forum has been going around some states in the North for consultations with relevant stakeholders. Sani explained that the youth group embarked on the consultation to produce a credible, competent, and economically-endowed leader that would consolidate on rapid economic growth that the CBN governor had already started in his current position. “I stand to be corrected, but I dare boldly to say that, Mr Godwin Emefiele’s achievements have reflected in all states of the country and are there for history and posterity to judge. “It never came easy; it was not done at his comfort zone, rather, it took a lot of courage, foresight, perseverance, determination, and hard work to overcome the numerous challenges scavenging on the fragile economy of our dear nation,” Sani said. He concluded that Emefiele had contained and dealt with a 60 per cent decline in the price of crude oil.In a remark, the Nasarawa State Coordinator for UNNYF for Emefiele 2023, Mr Faruk Mohammed Ofoku, said the Lafia consultation became necessary considering the youthful inclusion of Nasarawa youth in the decision-making process in the state. “The good people of Nasarawa State benefited so much from the good stewardship of the current CBN Governor. Nasarawa is the home of solid minerals; Mr Emefiele’s policies of diversification invested so much in solid mineral resources and agriculture. “Looking at all these economic and life-saving interventions of the CBN Governor in Nasarawa State and all other northern states, we the progressive Northern Nigerian Youth of Nasarawa State joined the National leadership of our Coalition and strongly call on Mr Godwin Emefiele to please, as matter of urgency, declare to run for the President of Nigeria in 2023,” Ofoku explained.Ofoku said their call was timely because the Nasarawa youths wanted their economy, especially mining and agriculture, to be rejuvenated.