Kemi Olaitan in Ibadan An Islamic human rights group, Muslim Rights Concern (MURIC), has called on the national leadership of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to call its Taraba State chapter to order. The organization in a statement by its Director, Prof. Ishaq Akintola,  warned the Taraba state chapter of PDP against dabbling into issues that has to do with religion in the state, condemning the party for supporting what it called religious cleansing and marginalisation of Muslims in the state in the area of appointments. It then called on the national leadership of the PDP to call its Taraba State chapter to order because it has intervened in a matter that deeply hurts Taraba Muslims. Akintola said, “We will like to state clearly, categorically and emphatically that the issue at stake is not politics but religious cleansing and marginalisation of Muslims in the state in the area of appointments. MURIC’s grudge against Governor Ishaku has to do with the way he has been trampling with impunity on Allah-given fundamental human rights of Taraba Muslims. “It has nothing to do with his political party at all. We are protecting the interest of Muslims in the state. We are equally interested in good governance and responsible leadership that will ensure justice, equity and fairness to all irrespective of ethnicity or faith. “It will not be so wise for the PDP to antagonise all Muslims in the party. In the same manner, MURIC cannot fight the PDP because hundreds of our members are stakeholders in the party. That is why we must not take sides with any political party. “We are therefore calling on the national leadership of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to call its Taraba State chapter to order because it has intervened in a matter that deeply hurts Taraba Muslims. Ishaku should not be allowed to use his party, the PDP, to fight Muslims. “The denial of jobs to Muslims in the state is aimed at impoverishing Muslims in the state. Ditto for their subjection to humiliating promotion of their juniors at work as well as religious cleansing whereby Muslims are sacked and replaced by Christians. We urge PDP national body to investigate these allegations. “MURIC has issued at least five press statements on the plight of Muslims in Taraba state between January and March 2022. No political party was mentioned in those statements. We did not mention PDP. “So why drag the party into a problem caused by Ishaku’s open manifestation of religious bias, provocative exhibition of executive recklessness and unhidden acts of administrative ineptitude? “MURIC has nothing against the PDP or any political party for that matter. Sokoto under Aminu Waziri Tambuwal is controlled by the PDP. Why hasn’t MURIC attacked him. Look at Bauchi under Bala Muhammed, a PDP governor. Has MURIC ever attacked him? The same applies to Adamawa under Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri. Adamawa is a PDP state and MURIC has no grudges with its governor. The secret is good governance and equitable treatment of the adherents of all faiths. “It is therefore not the political party, but the attitude of the state governor towards Muslims in the state. It is not even about the religion of the governor. For instance, MURIC has not had any altercation with Christian governors like Senator Duoye Diri of Bayelsa and Professor Benedict Ayade of Cross River State. “We are not interested in what political parties do. Our interest lies in the welfare of Muslims in all Nigerian states and we will continue to interrogate the actions of governors who persecute, marginalise and traumatise their Muslim subjects regardless of what political party they belong. “Governors who are Muslim haters will not escape our scrutiny. Our grudge with Ishaku is not because he is a Christian but because he is using his political power to persecute Muslims in the state despite the fact that the Muslims are the majority.”