Does the future belong to cryptocurrencies or are they just smokescreens generated by financial gamblers? Here’s our take on this topic. Image source Bitcoin, Ether, and other cryptocurrencies are on everyone’s lips. They promise fantastic increases in value and, in times of rising inflation, also an independent financial investment. Bitcoin has been around for over 10 years – the most valuable and important cryptocurrency. It started as a romantic vision of a world without banks, you could get it for pennies. Today, the price fluctuates between 30,000 and over 40,000 dollars. An entire crypto-finance industry has emerged, with professional investors even using a Bittrex crypto bot to automate trading. These values arise because they are recorded in a gigantic, decentrally divided logbook – a distributed ledger – in which all transactions ever made are recorded from the first coin to the present day. An algorithm was programmed to ensure that there is only one valid logbook per blockchain of a cryptocurrency that is accepted by all. Among all network participants, the accountant who continues to write the logbook for the community changes constantly, for example every 15 minutes. To determine whose turn it is to keep the book next, the current last link in the chain ends with a cryptographic puzzle whose code can only be cracked with enormous computing power. Whoever cracks the crypto puzzle first gets to write the next block, hence the name blockchain. Due to the decentralized procedure, the blockchain is considered forgery-proof. Through the blockchain, trust can be established between the individual market participants, which with conventional currencies can only be created by a central authority, a central bank. This means that cryptocurrencies completely escape the influence of government monetary policy. Also, in theory, banks are no longer needed to pass on central bank money such as euros or dollars, called fiat money, to the people. Because it is programmed into the blockchain protocols of Bitcoin and many other cryptocurrencies that only a limited amount of money may be mined in total, the digital currency is also considered particularly safe against inflation. No wonder that Bitcoin was the first cryptocurrency to be developed over ten years ago as a direct result of the global financial crisis. According to estimates, the Bitcoin infrastructure already emits as much as the entire country of Argentina. In an article in the journal Nature, researchers point out that the emissions from Bitcoin alone will even cause humanity to miss the climate 2-degree target. However, the carbon footprint of the fiat financial system infrastructure is missing here for comparison. And Ethereum and other smaller blockchain networks are already working to make their system more climate-friendly. Investments in cryptocurrencies are open to anyone and everyone. It does not require a securities account, theoretically not even a bank account. All that is needed is a computer or smartphone to log into the blockchain with an individual user ID, a pseudonym, and buy cryptocurrencies. Apps for this are offered by many larger and smaller exchange platforms, the best known being Binance and Coinbase, which recently completed a billion-dollar IPO in the US. Anyone who has invested in cryptocurrencies in recent years could get rich – but a lot can also go wrong. So far, there is little to no regulation for crypto providers – even though they have long been offered on an international market similar to classic financial products and are becoming increasingly complex. For a long time now, there have not only been Bitcoin, Ether, Cardano, Dogecoin, and many other cryptocurrencies, but also stablecoins, for example, which are linked to real assets such as foreign currencies or shares. More and more options and derivatives, complex crypto-financial products, are also being traded. Recently, US authorities stopped the exchange platform Coinbase when it wanted to introduce high-risk crypto consumer loans. Bitcoin became notorious as the currency of the darknet. However: the prejudice of criminal use of cryptocurrencies hardly proves to be tenable when looking at empirical figures. The “Crypto Crime Report 2021” shows a decrease in crimes related to cryptocurrencies, moreover, the share of illegal activities is a relatively small part compared to the traditional financial system, according to the report. Experts agree that cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin and Ether will probably never become common means of payment in our everyday lives, at least not in countries with stable, trustworthy currencies. They rather fulfill the function of bonds and gold – they are speculative investments that are worthwhile over a long period of time – as long as enough people believe in them.