Society Watch Without a doubt, the boss of Sujimoto Construction, Sijibomi Ogundele, has proven his worth; he is not your regular businessman. With his in-depth understanding of the behavioural theory of human beings, the real estate giant has taken the real estate business several notches higher.His philosophy of understanding the importance of his employees and their contribution to the growth of his businesses have combined to make him one of the leading and glittering lights in the real estate sector within the shortest time possible. The amiable luxury estate giant learnt the secrets early by living a life guarded by the witty saying of Anne M. Mulcahy, which says, “Employees are a company’s greatest asset – they’re your competitive advantage. You want to attract and retain the best; provide them with encouragement, stimulus, and make them feel that they are an integral part of the company’s mission.” Making this time-tested saying his watchword and guiding principle has imbued him with the rare understanding of the business environment and to act in the best interest of all always. And with the hardship in the country and around the world which has resulted in double-digit inflation, Ogundele has introduced a stimulus package for his staff to make their lives easier and better to cushion the difficulties they are going through. “They are an integral part of the company and our business. Their personal happiness is significant to the growth and expansion of Sujimoto so we need to look after their needs at all times”, the businessman said. Meanwhile, it is no longer news that the property merchant has continued to blaze the trail and he is not resting on his oars anytime soon. He is someone that believes the sky is his starting point. It was revealed that the shrewd business magnate is spreading his tentacles with his foray into the entertainment sector. Also, it was disclosed that Homewin, his new property company, would be launched in May. He has also made moves into water production, betting and other sectors of the economy. Clearly, the astute businessman is becoming a Jack of all trades and a master of all.