 James Sowole in Abeokuta Residents of Ikenne Remo, headquarters of Ikenne Local Government area of Ogun State, yesterday trooped out in their hundreds during a solidarity walk organised by the town’s development association, youth association and market women in the town in support of Vice President Yemi Osinbajo for 2023 Presidential election. The residents, who first gathered in front of the Ikenne Security Council office before moving to the palace of Alakenne of Ikenne, Oba Adeyinka Onakade, where market women had also gathered, to seek prayers for Osinbajo’s ambition. Addressing the  supporters led by the Iyaloja General of Remoland, Mrs. Mercy Owolana and others who carried placards of various inscriptions eulogising the Vice President, Oba Onakade, described Osinbajo as a competent, knowledgeable, experienced and ideal person that Nigeria needs at this time. The monarch said reports reaching him on the ambition of Osinbajo, clearly showed that the vice president was acceptable to most Nigerians. He therefore enjoined the indigenes of Remoland both home and abroad to embark on an aggressive campaign and see themselves as one on the Osinbajo’s presidential project. The Osinbajo’s supporters later moved from the monarch’s palace and embarked on a solidarity walk  through Tai Solarin’s Way singing and dancing. Some of the placards carried by the youths and market women read: ‘Osinbajo is Most Experienced’; ‘Osinbajo’s Presidency will Bring Progress’; ‘Osinbajo 2023 Is Sure’; ‘Ikenne Remo Market Women Support Osinbajo’; ‘Ikenne Youths For Osinbajo’, among others. While addressing the supporters, the President of Ikenne Development Association (IDA), Comrade Adedoyin Adesina, said Osinbajo, among the aspirants campaigning for the presidential ticket of the All Progressives Congress (APC), is the most competent, experienced in terms of governance at the Presidential level. According to Adesina, Osinbajo had demonstrated his competence during the absence of President Muhammadu Buhari when he acted. The IDA president therefore advised Nigerians to avoid making another mistake, saying moneybags would soon be trying to lure delegates. He advised that Nigerians should vote according to their conscience by looking at the past record of Osinbajo for a better Nigeria. Also addressing the gathering, the President of Ikenne Youth Association, Arowolo Oluwafemi, said all youths in Remoland were ready to work assiduously in order to realise the presidential ambition of Osinbajo. Buttressing the position of the IDA president, Oluwafemi said Nigerians should consider competence and capability when casting their votes in the forthcoming election. He called on APC delegates to shun money bags, who may want to buy their conscience with money and later throw the country into another problem.