Chuks Okocha in Abuja The ongoing Continuous Voter Registration (CVR) exercise in Imo State has suffered a minor setback following the decision of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to suspend activities in all the 54 additional centres created to facilitate the registration of voters across the state. The commission had Thursday suspended the registration of fresh voters in the Ihite Uboma Local Government Area of the state due to the attack on its staff that resulted in some casualties. The electoral umpire had in a swift response to the unfortunate incident in Imo State in which its staff, Anthony Nwokorie was killed by gunmen in Ihitte Uboma Local Government Area yesterday ordered the suspension of the Continuous Voter Registration (CVR) exercise in the affected LGA. However, in another statement yesterday by the National Commissioner and Chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee, Festus Okoye, signalled a turn of events. “The exercise will now be confined to our state and local government area offices except in Orsu, Njaba and Ihitte Uboma where it is suspended indefinitely. “This decision follows a further report from the Resident Electoral Commissioner, Prof. Francis C. Ezeonu, of threats to our staff involved in the exercise in Ehime Mbano Local Government Area. Earlier, the Commission had restricted the exercise to our offices in Oru East, Oru West, Orlu and Ohaji-Egbema local government areas.” The said attack at Nkwo Ihitte (PU 004) in Amakohia Ward (RA 02) of Ihitte Uboma Local Government Area resulted in the disappearance of two staff of the Commission involved in the registration exercise. “Meanwhile, the Commission has now established contact with two of our staff missing after yesterday’s attack in Ihitte Uboma. They are safe and will soon be reunited with their families. “The safety of staff remains a primary concern to the Commission. We will continue to ensure that no staff is put in harm’s way while working with the security agencies and community leaders to protect them and facilitate their work,” the statement assured.