Segun Awofadeji in Gombe Gombe State Governor, Alhaji Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya, has stated that the All Progressives Congress (APC)in the state remains solid in terms of numerical strength and magnificent performance of its administration to show, and therefore, called on the party members in the state to guard against political wolf in sheep clothing. Yahaya stated this while speaking at the distribution of empowerment items facilitated by the member representing Gombe South in state House of Assembly, Hon. Mustapha Usman , at the APC square at the weekend. The governor noted that the citizens tend to appreciate the true essence of leadership when leaders cultivate the habit of doing those things that can improve their lives, saying: “This is the main thrust of the APC administration.”He said his administration would continue to accord priority to policies and programmes that have direct bearing on the life of the common man, urging elected officials and political appointees to also strive in impacting on the lives of the electorate in whatever way they can. The governor charged beneficiaries of this and other empowerment programmes in the state to utilise the items given to them for their social and economic emancipation. He noted that the empowerment programme initiated by Hassan falls in line with the APC manifesto of meeting the social and economic yearnings and aspirations of the people. Yahaya said the time has come for the APC in the state to flaunt its life-changing interventions for everyone to see, and therefore, called on the people of the state not to hesitate in returning the favour by staying true to the leadership qualities of Hon. Mustapha Hassan. The Speaker, Gombe State House of Assembly,  Hon. Abubakar Mohammed Luggerewo, said the empowerment scheme could not have come at a better time when the governor is taking pragmatic steps towards putting the state on the pedestal of sustainable development. He congratulated Hassan for initiating the scheme, which he said would go a long way in changing the social and economic status of the people. On his own, the initiator of the empowerment programme, Hassan thanked the governor for showing leadership, which is robbing off on politicians in the state to contribute their quota to the growth and development of their various communities and humanity in general.