 A business man,   Benjamin Ogudoro, has been arrested for allegedly setting his  wife, Chinyere and his brother in-law, Ifeanyin Edoziem, on fire at their apartment in  Oteyi community, in Amuwo Odofin Local Government Area of Lagos. The incident which occured at the early hours of last Friday, left 46 years  old Chinyere , who just  returned  from  Scotland same day, dead, on the spot while her brother died moments after reaching the hospital. Late Chinyere was said to have relocated to Scotland four years ago, returned to Nigeria same day tragedy struck,  when she got wind of her husband’s plan to sell the house she built. After allegedly setting the duo on fire, the suspect placed a call to one of  her sisters alerting her  that their house was on fire but that he managed to escape while his wife and her brother were trapped.But  Ifeanyi’s dying declaration revealed what transpired. Shortly before he passed on,  he  managed to explain that ” I went to pick my sister from the Murtala Mohammed International Airport when she returned . We were sleeping when her husband came in late, banging on the door. “We had a little misunderstanding as he accused me of locking him outside. I told him I didn’t bolt the door,  that I only used the key lock and that besides, he could have opened it since he had his keys with him. ” He kept shouting that I locked him out.  He insulted me and my sister. But we kept quiet. He left the room, only to return when we had fallen asleep. He poured petrol on us, lit a match and went out.” We were burning. I managed to escape but couldn’t save my sister. I was fortunate enough to survive”. Unfortunately, he could not withstand the degree of burns and died afterwards.The charred remains of Chinyerewere evacuated by a team of policemen from Trade Fair division, who were alerted by private guards from Oteyi community. Police sources hinted that fleeing Ogudoro had been arrested. The Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer, SP Benjamin Hundeyin confirmed the arrest, adding that the suspect has been transfered to the State Criminal Investigations  Department (SCID), Yaba , on the directive of the Commissioner of Police, CP Abiodun Alabi, for further investigation.He said the corpses had been deposited at the Mainland Hospital mortuary, Yaba, for autopsy.