 Eddie Mbadiwe As 2023 draws closer, some people have become sceptical if there will be presidential elections in view of the consuming insecurity that has enveloped Nigeria. One sometimes ponders why anyone would want to rule a country that spends about 90% of its earned income on debt servicing unless the person has a divine wand. Ngozi Okonjo Iwela and Chief Olusegun Obasanjo were to get a debt cancellation and since then nothing else has happened except big talk. Ngozi Okonjo Iwela and Chief Olusegun Obasanjo have etched their names in gold. Another possible reason for those wanting to rule is forum hunting to buy immunity and escape the long arm of the law. As the day follows the night it is inescapable that those who have pillaged this country pay restitution or prepare for a long time in prison. There is no escape from natural justice. The last question is for that category of people who finally want to sell the country and condemn us to slavery. G.O Pastor Adeboye said in clear terms he does not know if there will be an election as God has not told him yet. He is equally clear that he does not and has never supported any candidate of any party as his job is to pray. Being human, he at some point must be frustrated and wonder if God answers his prayer. All of us have at one moment or the other had our periods of doubt. The water is currently muddied and EFCC and ICPC can shine clear lights and help us see through this polluted environment. Some people are so sceptical that they just cannot see a way out. It will in fact be criminal to foist some of these people as rulers of Nigeria. The young man who is at the current helm of affairs at EFCC we understand had a part of his early education at the prestigious, highly disciplined, no nonsense Government Secondary School Owerri where the English men who were principals distilled integrity and honesty into the spinal cord of the then students. It was one of the three model government secondary schools in the former Eastern Nigeria. At Owerri, students were given a rounded education not necessarily to pass examinations but they also passed. Failure was not an option. So the EFCC must not fail. The EFCC must shine the light on some of these charlatans to enable the chaff fall off from the wheat. It is in my view that this is a duty EFCC owe the Nigerian public. The rain must fall so that the dust will settle. A number of people have given up on Nigeria but quite a few are unrepentant optimists who still believe a greener pasture still lies ahead As long as we can contend with the current insecurity and rejig our modus operandi to enthrone equity and justice in all appointments, it is still for a little acorn to emerge into mighty Iroko tree. In the by-line of the West African Pilot EFCC and ICPC must show the light and the people will certainly find the way. Rt. Hon Dr. Eddie Mbadiwe writes from Abuja