 A consumable delivery outlet, KASUA.com has joined the courier industry in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). In a statement yesterday, the promoter of the new outlet, Ose Osaghae said it set “to bring a market innovation that makes shopping a delightsome comfort, allowing  for consumers to sit down in the comfort of their offices and homes, make their choices and specifications on food items to order, and delivered promptly to convenient locations. Osaghae KASUA.com takes the stress off consumers and end users, which is achievable via a superb E-Commerce platform and one on one means of transaction. He said: “KASUA.com is initiating a market revolution that gives (CARS) Comfortability, Affordability, Reliability and Satisfaction all guaranteed in a simple wholesome package. “The target market for distribution are Hotels, Eateries/Restaurants; bank employees; Government ministries and parastatals; Military and paramilitary institutions, other private and public enterprises; Estates etc. “KASUA.com operates a very effective logistic system designated to mapped out areas to deliver ordered items within the respective locations on a daily basis (Mondays through Sundays). “Prospective customers will place their orders online or phone dedicated lines at least 24hours before delivery. All payments are made to conform with the cashless policy,” Osaghae explained. According to him, the pilot of this project is done  in FCT with a market platform and designated pick- up points in every district within the Abuja municipality and the satellite towns. He said marketers were trained and employed to handle customer relations within assigned households in populated locations like estates, clusters of major streets, offices, official residences and various eateries. He said the aim “is for Kasua to maintain a close business relationship with these customers that will sustain patronage and loyalty while continuously increasing the customer base. “To add value to our produce, Kasua will process and package some of their food to guarantee freshness and organic content, for consumers comfort and health benefits with its processing centre located in Kuje.”