 Wale Igbintade The Ladoke Akintola University of Technology, LAUTECH, Ogbomoso will today confer Honorary Doctorate Degree  on a former military governor of Oyo State, Major General Oladayo Popoola (Retd), and a  legal luminary, Chief Mobolaji Olukayode Ayorinde (SAN) as the university holds its 14th combined special convocation ceremonies. Also to be honoured is a former Nigerian High Commissioner to Zambia and Malawi, Ambassador Ibironke Adefope. The institution disclosed this in separate letters of invitation sent to the three prestigious honorees. Specifically, a letter dated April 8, 2022, written to Chief Bolaji Ayorinde (SAN), and signed by the Acting Vice-Chancellor Professor Liasu, stated that the University’s Senate arrived at the decision having taken into consideration Ayorinde’s pedigree and contribution to humanity in general. The letter reads ‘’Council at its meeting of Friday, April 8, 2022, considered the recommendation from Senate on your nomination for the award of Honorary Degree, Doctor of Civil Law (D.CL Honoris causa) at the Convocation ceremonies holding on Saturday, April 23, 2022. ‘’Council arrived at the decision to award you the honorary degree, having taken into consideration your pedigree and contribution to humanity in general. It is the belief of the University that awarding you this degree will serve as further impetus for you to continue to be of use to humanity’’. Mobolaji Ayorinde (SAN) was a former Pro-Chancellor, Chairman Governing Council Ladoke Akintola University of Technology, Ogbomoso, between 2007 and 2011. He was also a member of the Presidential Advisory Committee on the Prerogative of Mercy, PACPM during the time of former President Goodluck Jonathan and a Fellow, Nigerian Institute of Chartered Arbitrators, Chairman, Aviation & Transport Committee, Nigerian Institute of Chartered Arbitrators. He was also the Chairman of the Oyo State Committee on the Decongestion of Prisons. In June 2012, he was appointed Chairman of the Governing Board of the Legal Aid Council of Nigeria by the President. Ayorinde was conferred with the National Honour of “Officer of the Order of the Federal Republic” of Nigeria, OFR in 2014.”