 The Chief Executive Officer, Seeder and Ash Capital, Kayode Omosebi, has stated that as a proprietary Investment and Financial Advisory firm, Seeder and Ash Capital is focused on unlocking sustainable investment and capital required to drive the future of Africa forward. He said for three years now, the firm has helped scaled SMEs with high network, capital and expertise, and has also created access to investment opportunities. In a chat with journalists recently, Omosebi revealed how he started his journey by being industrious in the financial sector. First, as an employee, he was resourceful, reliable, and a team player. “There is always some sort of politics and favoritism in most companies or workplaces, but in the midst of that, I stayed on my path and true to myself. I managed my team well, making sure I was learning from those above me, and teaching those under me. The end game was not just to impress the boss, but to truly have an impact on the organization and grow in the corporate environment,” he said. Focused on a greater vision, Omosebi would go on to lead an advisory team and close crucial deals. These deals won his company awards such as the award for one of the top investment banks in the capital market. Although these times were quite challenging for Omosebi, he closed several transactions including The Dangote Commercial Papers, Flour Mills Bond, Real Estate transactions, among others, raising over $1bn. It is no surprise however that Omosebi started a financial advisory firm, Seed and Ash Capital, after working in advisory for a while himself, which was created out of a need to close gaps in the value chain across sectors, Seed and Ash Capital stands out with its backing up of businesses with not only capital but also network and expertise. Omosebi explained: “What makes us happy and satisfied is the fact that we are able to scale up businesses from the point we met them. We want every business that passes through us to become a big player in the continent. “We don’t look for already made businesses, we go for those that have the potential of going global. That being said, we don’t just bring the money, we support with more resources like partnerships and collaborations and take on the journey with you.” In this vein, Omosebi shares some of Seeder and Ash Capital’s achievements, which include “a portfolio of strong investee companies with a total asset size of about N2bn. We have also been able to advise small companies and raise capital of over $10m in key sectors such as dredging and transportation which we funded with about 50 trucks, also, Agriculture, which we have funded with about N1bn in green farms and processing companies. We created a model for investors in the hospitality sector as well.” Not limited to only SMEs, Seeder and Ash Capital also invests in startups and as a financial analyst, Omosebi believes the Fintech industry has come to stay as “tech is an enabler of banking, so they will continue to coexist and banking will continue to lean towards tech.” As a key player, Omosebi also was a mentor at the Tony Elumelu Entrepreneurship Program (TEEP) and Lagos State Employment Trust Fund (LSETF).