 Ferdinand Ekechukwu Superstar actress, Rita  Dominic is set to walk down the aisle a few days from now with her man, Fidelis Anosike. The couple will be getting married in Imo state on April 18th and 19th. The actress who has kept her relationship with the Daily Times publisher private took many by surprise when she first took to her Instagram page to reveal the identity of her partner in December 2020. Soon after, the blogosphere went agog with comments and congratulatory messages. In fact, her post as at the time had generated over 10,000 comments, which by far the highest she has ever recorded on any of her social media platforms. The husband and wife-to-be have continued to send social media users gushing after they shared their beautiful pre-wedding pictures on Tuesday. The alluring images tell a subtle and enchanting story of love between the two. Rita rocked a simple white shirt while her lover complemented the look with a nice black shirt.  The images also captured the two leaning into each other’s warm embrace and even almost locking lips in one. Many couldn’t help but gush over the two as they congratulated them ahead of the big celebration. Rita and Anosike met during the 2017 Africa International Film Festival (AFRIFF) session on film business which had government representatives, business leaders and development agencies as well as media entrepreneurs and top executives. Thus began their beautiful. The news of her forthcoming wedding has stoked up celebration among her fans that have waited for her for years to pick a man. The La Femme Anjola star has successfully kept her relationship private. Once speaking during a television interview in November 2018 on her experience regarding relationship and how society perceives a woman’s success incomplete without marriage, Rita insisted she would not marry because society wants her to, but because she wants to. “At the end of the day, if I’m going to do it, I’m doing it for myself not because society wants me to do it. And I always will still say; I will marry the man of my dreams and not the man society dreams for me”, Rita said. “Society feels there’s something wrong with you if you’re at a certain age and you’re not married. What if it’s the society that something is wrong with for thinking that way; for forcing someone to do what they don’t want to do or forcing them to do what they want to do but in their society’s own time and not at the person’s time?”