Ex-President Goodluck Jonathan, Let’s Take It Easy As I was writing this column, the news that former President Goodluck Jonathan’s convoy was involved in an accident leading to the passing of two people hit the airwaves. Sad. But this unfortunate occurrence has once again thrown up the rascality that comes with these convoys. If you are unlucky enough to find yourself near them or around them you will see the rascality involved with these movements. There is no dignity in these movements. The screaming sirens, the fast-paced movements, the daredevilry that comes especially with the outriders who have this wicked need to show off on their rickety bikes, and lastly the mad speed with which they run, the rest of us will just stand back and be asking ourselves- what a heck? Mbok, whoever has the power to regulate these should step in o. Me I don’t think LASTMA can handle this one o, not even Road Safety can. Mbok, imagine a hardworking and passionate LASTMA officer trying to stop a convoy from overspeeding or taking one way. Na to go and visit the man for Igbobi where he will be doing facial restructuring after the slaps he would have received. Please, let’s use this incident to look critically at these movements and the danger they constitute not only to the public but to even themselves with a view to making concrete changes aimed at securing lives. May Allah grant the souls of these ones eternal bliss. Please let’s calm down, mbok. Bisi Alimi: Funny, Has to Do with It You see the title of this piece is me trying to be dramatic. You know I am a theatre person and na so we dey do. This person Bisi Alimi on a good day will not catch my attention. I do not reckon with him, engage him or even give a flicker about him. He has positioned himself as some kind of deviant activist. His right. His positioning has given him some kind of platform that allows him to postulate and say things in his attempt at being taken seriously. So, he now spews- it is so wrong to give birth in a country like Nigeria. This got me. This went under my skin and this annoyed me. An almost non-person? Please permit me. I am angry. The fact that we have our challenges as a nation, the fact that we are facing the very worst in all indices does not allow for such assertions, especially from people who on their own accord chose to ‘run away’ and accept less than a first-class citizenry in another clime. I hate these things. I truly hate these kinds of assertions. People like this fail to understand that it’s the people that make a nation. Good leadership doesn’t drop from the sky and even in that place he is ‘bending down daily’, it is people who are passionate about their system that emerge as true leaders working for the continuous growth and stability of the place. Here we have all sorts of Pharisees complaining without lifting a finger to sort these things out. The worst kinds of people are those who migrate to go and sponge off a system they didn’t contribute to building, living second rate lives and standing from a pulpit made of semen to cast these kinds of disparaging views about such a great country as this. Let me state here categorically, that this country remains very great. It will still fulfil its massive obligations to its people whether we like it or not. Some of us will continually remain here and engage the rest of the world with the dignity our glorious heritage affords us. We will not in servitude spit on our fathers’ faces. We will not call our mothers prostitutes because we have finally gone to be truck pushers and corpse ‘washers’ in supposedly ‘better’ climes. Mr. Alimi go and sit down, you really do not matter to me and millions of Nigerians like me. Oba Saheed Elegushi: An Exciting Turn I have heard and seen so much about this very good-looking and amiable royal. I had looked forward to meeting up with him to better understand his outlook and the breath of fresh air that he has breathed into a tired national tradition institution. The stuffiness that comes with royal stools, the old archaic order of doing things not bearing any cognitive alliance to the dynamism of modern times has always made me just look at the whole thing with a certain level of cynicism. But Oba Elegushi stands out. My visit to the Olu of Warri was also eye-opening. He has been able to find a sweet workable middle road that has produced a fine blend between the old and modern. That was very intriguing. For the ‘Gucci’ Oba as I see him being called on social media, he has pushed it a little bit further but with a huge amount of class and elegance. His is not the tacky almost revolting montage we see from another young but quite effusive royal tucked somewhere in the South-west. For him, there is a deliberateness that comes with his social engagement, maintaining the right respect for the throne and its appurtenances. So, when the opportunity came for the visit, I grabbed it with all I could. His palace was expansive and white-coloured. His private residence where we first met Kabiyesi was simple and quite elegant. Very good-looking, neat and well kept. Filled with youth and the energy that comes with it, he takes me on a very deep and incisive discussion on his family history, its traditions and finally business and politics. He wants to be known more for his business acumen with his hands in various sectors of the economy including real estate, among others. His views on leadership are pointedly left of centre. He wants true leadership to provide for the masses and also wants wealth to be spread much more evenly and that is why succession planning must go along the lines of pre-agreed structures if it is to provide the much-needed succour for the people. In the end, I begged to be taken to the throne room. He agreed and carried his horsewhip, exposing a beautiful black-crested suede half slipper, the type that used to kill me. As he walked towards the room, I asked him: “Is this where all your power is?” pointing to the horsewhip. He laughed and said, “No, it’s in my mouth.” We all laughed. The throne room was elegantly beautiful. Well rugged with a wonderfully appointed visage. We sat for photographs and he smiled at me as I walked away – this is me, this is me. Yes, that is him, an elegant and spritely curated monarch with a deep affinity to his people and their tradition. I had fun. Blaise Campore: A Deserving Conclusion For some of us who witnessed Thomas Sankara, his death was worse than painful. He was not only very handsome but very charismatic. You should have come to see Jude Idada’s ‘Sankara’ and you will understand what I am talking about. His death at the hands of his best friend hit the world with mad anger. There was wailing and tears from all over. People could not believe what just happened. This person had just killed our standing hope. Coups have always been the bane of the underdevelopment of Africa. One errant soldier will just have this messianic tendency and shoot himself to power with no clear plan but to marry many more wives and live drunkenly on state funds. Military coups have also brought about shining lights like Sankara and one or two in Egypt but they have thrown up mostly vagabonds and pirates with so much power that they do not even know how to handle it. People like Emperor Bokassa, Idi Amin and a slew of them here in Nigeria come as real cases in point. In Nigeria, we have seen them o. Plenty o. They will carry big heads, gap teeth, dark glasses and funny accents and be saying – my fellow Nigerians- and then go ahead to unleash on us the worst kind of leadership since Elvis Presley invaded the White House. The prayer is for this judgment conferring a life sentence on Mr. Compare would serve as a deterrent to the rest of the continent. Democracy must always be upheld no matter what. I am tired abeg. My hand is paining me, let me end it here. Let those who have ears listen. Tunde Bakare: Audacity of a Lie You know my own with this Baba is the way he used to pour spit when he is talking. During that COVID-19 period, I used to fear that those seated in front during his sermon without a mask must have an overdose of faith. The way the spit will just be coming out and those ones will be sitting down there and collecting the thing will just be marvelling. So, when I read about this his statement, I wasn’t initially bothered about the emptiness of the talk but for the safety of those seated in front and listening to him. Thank God the federal government has finally agreed to stop the ‘scam’ that was all that with COVID by removing all the restrictions, otherwise, I would have advised people that were in that audience to just go and be doing tests or be drinking ginger because Baba can spit. Kai. So, he told us how he sat there and saw Igbo soldiers pour wine over Balewa’s head before they shot him and he could not beg for his life? Instead, he asked Balewa for his last wish and that one now graciously told Baba Bakare that he has cursed the Igbo people and they will never lead this country. This Baba must really think that we all have fufu in our brains. So, a man facing bullets will be thinking of the Igbo presidency at the time. Okorocha has kuku answered him, so I will not talk too much because if I talk, he will send for me and I will not want him to pour spit on me. Me I will not sit down there and take it o. All I will say at this point is what my Mama told me- Ini, she had called me, “you know you have a very creative mind, it is not everything that your mind conjures that you tell people. Keep them otherwise you would look quite foolish to people.” Na my Mama talk am o, I am not calling anybody foolish o, na the advice my Mama give me that I am just saying now o. She don die but if anybody needs to confront her, I will gladly give you her number. This na real audacity of a lie. Baba Kekere: A Shift in Dates Please don’t vex, let me quickly announce that we have shifted the dates for the command performance of this wonderful play on Alhaji Lateef Jakande from  April 24 to May 2, 2022. The decision was taken by the Lagos State Government through its Special Adviser on Tourism, Culture and Art who also is the Co-Executive Producer, Mr Bonu Solomon. According to him, the postponement was to ensure an all-inclusive engagement to allow for Muslims who would be in the middle of Ramadan to finish and be part of this epochal event. So, guys, there you are, as ‘Zebi ‘used to say. Those of you who have been looking for me to knock, you have the opportunity now. Just come to Glover Hall, buy your VIP tickets and stand a chance of knocking me. If you come near me with a regular ticket or complimentary ticket, na me go knock you. I don run.