No matter if you’ve only been to land-based casinos so far or are looking for some new form of entertainment, you might be considering trying online casinos. Seeing as how each African country has its own laws and regulations, it is first important to make sure that gambling in your area is allowed. Once that is settled, you will see that there is a large range of online operators that you could join. So, how are you supposed to find the best casino for yourself? Keep the following tips in mind when looking for an online casino in Africa. Make sure the casino is licensed First and foremost, when deciding on a casino to join, you need to look into the licenses it has. For starters, you need to understand the laws of your country and whether only state-licensed casinos are allowed. If there are no local authorities that issue licenses, you should still keep an eye out on which international stamps of approval a certain operator has. For instance, you can look at the bottom of the page or in the about section if the online casino is licensed by the Malta Gaming Authority, the Gibraltar Licensing Authority, the United Kingdom Gambling Commission, or some other reputable gambling commission. Look into their security In addition to the licenses, you also need to ensure the casino you choose is secure. As you will be providing them with personal and financial information, it’s essential that they have top-notch encryption. Even if you’re not that tech-savvy, easy things you can do to check if you’re protected include looking if the URL says https:// instead of http:// and see if there is a padlock next to the address bar. Something else you can do is read a few reviews to see if any other players had issues with security. Check out the game offer Once you’ve ensured your safety, it’s time to look at the games that various casinos offer. If you’re completely new to the world of gambling, you might not actually care about what games you’ll get to play as you’re still familiarizing yourself with everything that’s out there. However, if you’re an avid slots player, you want to go through the slot games that the casino you’re thinking of joining has. In case there are only a few games, continue looking as there are sites with countless options. The same goes for table and card games. Read up on what kinds of bonuses you can expect Besides a wide array of games, you also want to see what kinds of bonuses you can encounter on a gambling website. For example, take a look at what sort of welcome bonus they have in place. Do they match all deposits or only those over a certain amount? Then, in addition to a deposit bonus, you can also find no-deposit bonuses that allow you to place bets without putting money into your account. Other bonuses that are often found include cashbacks, refer-a-friend, and free spins. Decide if the banking methods suit you In order to put money into your account, however, you need to see which payment options a particular casino accepts. For instance, some accept everything from Visa and MasterCard to e-wallets and various cryptocurrencies while others only have a few available alternatives. Moreover, to get your winnings, you should also look into the withdrawal options as the deposit and withdrawal methods can also differ. See how fast the payouts are If you’ve found a banking method that suits you, it’s also crucial to check how long you might have to wait for your payout. While in some cases you might have to wait a few days to get your winnings, there are also casinos that offer instant payouts. When it comes to withdrawals, the method you are using plays one of the most important roles, seeing as how debit and credit cards can take up to five days and e-wallets process payments within 24-48 hours while you could have your winnings within minutes if you use crypto. Determine if having an app is a must When making your decision, you should also take into account the fact that not every casino might have a dedicated app. Decide for yourself if having one is essential or if you can simply play via browser even when on the go. Keep in mind, though, that apps come with several benefits. Don’t skip the terms and conditions Finally, having gone through all of these factors that should influence your decision, you don’t want to sign up for an online casino before you’ve read the site’s terms and conditions. Here, you will find certain requirements you will have to meet to, for example, get a bonus as well as various other rules that include how you need to behave and what can lead to your account being suspended. Don’t skip this, it can come in really handy. With all that in mind, if you’re looking to join an online casino, the process is the same no matter if you’re in Africa or somewhere else. Ensure your safety, look at the casinos’ offer of games and bonuses, and read the terms and conditions!