 Mary Nnah In furtherance of its continued push towards championing inclusion for women and girls, women-focused nonprofit, Leading Ladies Africa collaborated with First Lady of Kwara State, Dr. Mrs. Olufolake Abudulrazaq, and leading Corporate Events Management Company, Always On Point, for its 2022 edition of the Leadership By Design Summit. Delivering her keynote as special guest of honour at the event, the First Lady of Kwara State said women’s full and effective participation and decision-making in political, economic, and public life was essential to achieving gender equality, which cannot be achieved without ending the widespread discrimination, violence, and economic and structural barriers that women and girls face. She said further that achieving change in this regard requires policy and programme actions that will improve women’s access to secure livelihoods and economic resources, alleviate their extreme responsibilities, remove legal impediments to their participation in public life, and raise social awareness through effective programmes of education and enlightenment. “We’re proud to collaborate and partner Leading Ladies Africa on the Leadership By Design Summit” said Lola Olukuewu; CEO Always On Point. “As a women-led organisation, we recognise and see the value and impact that women bring to the workplace, politics, business, policy and every other sphere where they operate, and it’s important to continue to create forums such as these to engage and have conversations that move the needle forward.” On her part, Founder Leading Ladies Africa, Francesca Uriri commended the support of the First Lady of Kwara State and Always On Point as they seek to chart a sustainable blueprint that encourages and supports the participation, growth and sustenance of women in the core sectors of business, corporate, politics and politics. “We will continue to push for gender equality and parity, while strengthening the business case for diversity, equity, belonging and inclusion — specifically with regards to women and girls”, she added. The Leadership By Design Summit is an initiative of Leading Ladies Africa, that provides a means of addressing and proffering solutions to the most urgent and pressing challenges women face in various fields of endeavours.