 Leader of the Afenifere socio political group, Pa Ayo Adebanjo, and leader of the Southern & Middle Belt Forum, Pa Edwin Clark, are set to grace the Greater Nigeria Conference holding today (Monday) at the International Conference Centre Abuja. The Greater Nigeria Conference is led by former Enugu Governor Okwesilieze Nwodo Sen. Victor Umeh and Sen Chris Anyanwu amongst other Igbo patriots from home and the diasporaA statement from the GNC Media Office signed by Collins Steve Ugwu said the Conference organized as a pan Nigeria dialogue by the non partisan Nzuko Umunna, a global Igbo Think Tank, was dedicated towards awakening the best ethnic and political fraternities of Nigerians to appreciate the binding need for  accommodation and  sacrifice, in supporting a Nigerian President from the South East in 2023. The statement said aside the eminent statesmen expected in Abuja from all over the country, governors from the Southeast region, who  will play central roles to the big idea of a Nigerian President from the Southeast persuasion project were also expected.“It is already heart warming, and a sign of great awareness what one of them, Governor Hope Uzodinma, of Imo state declared passionately this week. That  Ndigbo have cried enough on their marginalization, and  Nigerians should grant the region a fair playing ground, come 2023 general elections for the Presidency”, the statement said. Quoting Governor Uzodinma, the statement said, “No one in Nigeria can deny the fact that Ndigbo are zealous, patriotic and committed to the oneness of Nigeria. All that they demand is a level playing field for all of us to operate and compete.” Amplifying this firm and fair resolve, the statement noted that Uzodinma said:  “Most of the patriots who engineered the plan that made the Southwest region produce the presidential candidates for the two major political parties in 1999 are still alive and active in Nigerian politics. That same underlying love for the country that inspired them to do what they did for the Southwest in 1999, should inspire them to do the same for the Southeast in 2023.”  It added: “That simply is a factual foretaste to the many more of  what Greater Nigeria Conference will put in the front burner, as they gather all the Presidential aspirants from Southeast before Nigerians to dialogue and persuade the election of one as Nigeria President in the spirit of Together We Can do better for this country.”