 Ahead of the inaugural Africa Education Medal, stakeholders in the country have urged qualified players in the education sector to take advantage of the life changing opportunity offered by the platform. The Africa Education Medal is launched by T4 Education in collaboration with HP and Intel. The platform recognises the unflinching works of education actors who are transforming education across the continent. It aimed to amongst others, tell and celebrate the stories of those who have lit the spark of change in the sector in a bid to inspire others to take up the torch. According to the organisers, the medal is open to individuals working to improve pre-kindergarten, K-12, vocational and university education. While stressing the importance of the medal, Executive Officer of Junior Achievement Africa, Simi Nwogugu stated that the initiative would help spread positive education outcome. She urged change makers to apply or be nominated for the medal, adding that award would be presented to outstanding individual who have demonstrated impact, leadership, and advocacy in the field of education. She said, “Africa’s great change makers know education is the key to our continent’s prosperity in a global economy. I urge inspirational leaders from Nigeria and across Africa to step forward and apply for the Africa Education Medal so their stories can inspire thousands more.” Managing Director at HP Africa, Brad Pulford explained further that the initiatives mission aligned with HP’s vision of enabling better learning outcomes. He said, “HP has been committed to enabling better learning outcomes for 100 million people between 2015-2025. Achieving this bold goal wouldn’t be possible without empowered education leaders and trailblazers who are at the forefront of the rapidly changing education environment. “A quality education empowers not just individuals, but entire communities. It will skill the next generation to fulfil their full potential in a world being transformed by technology. The Africa Education Medal not only honours the tireless work of those seeking to improve education all across Africa, but gives them a platform to amplify their voices and inspire others to follow their examples.”