 Victor Ogunje in Ado Ekiti Ogoga of Ikere Ekiti, Oba Adejimi Adu-Alagbado has urged political parties in the country to give opportunities to youth to contribute their quotas to the development of the nation by giving them free tickets to contest in 2023. This came at a time the All Progressives Congress (APC) said the presidential aspirants would pay a humongous sum of N100 million for the party’s expression of interest and nomination forms and N50 million for governorship. But during a youth empowerment programme organised by a young entrepreneur and politician, Mr. Henrich Akomolafe said a certain percentage of tickets must be conceded free to youth while commemorating the monarch’s 70th birthday anniversary. He appreciated Akomolafe for the gesture and wished that he attained a position of authority in government, where he would be empowered to touch more lives in the town and Ekiti in general. Adu-Alagbado said the young entrepreneur has done wonderfully well in youth development through a series of empowerment programmes and sports development. The traditional ruler added that Akomolafe’s generous donations to sporting activities in Ikere Ekiti and institutions would help in talent discovery. He said: “I wish Henrich Akomolafe gets the mandate of the people to serve and contribute, likewise many of our youth outside there who are interested to serve because they love giving. Neglecting them won’t help our future. “I first met him some years back in the plane, where he told me that he would be coming home to assist our youths and that he had been doing it from time to time. “He is such a kind man, he is from a rich background, but his love for the poor people is immeasurable. He will impact meaningfully on vulnerable persons and deliver beyond expectations, if given opportunity to serve”. At the Bamidele Olumilua University of Education, Science and Technology, Ikere Ekiti, where Akomolafe Football Club defeated Raji FC by a lone goal, the entrepreneur promised to continue to do everything within his power to raise more youths from poverty level to stardom. He said he had just offered scholarships to some students while gifts were presented to outstanding students in his quiz competition, being part of his efforts to banish poverty in the land and expand the frontiers of economic breakthroughs. He said there “are more dividends in terms of empowerment for youth, widows and vulnerable children in the pipeline to impact on the people of Ikere Ekiti.”