 ·      Proposes N25m for a presidential aspirant ·      Laments founding father are crying silently Gboyega Akinsanmi Amid protracted nationwide criticism, the National Chairman of Afenifere Renewal Group (ARG), Hon. Olawale Oshun yesterday lashed at the leadership of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) for fixing its nomination and expression of interest forms for presidential and governorship aspirants at N100 million and N50 million respectively. Oshun, a founding chieftain of the APC, described the fees fixed for all elective offices as exorbitant and outrageous, thus asking the National Working Committee (NWC) to immediately reduce the fees by 75 percent across the board. He expressed grave concern about the party’s nomination fees, pointing out that the fees by all standards contravened the sensitive nature of negotiations that culminated in the birth of the APC on February 6, 2013. The APC had, in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Mr Felix Morka, had set the nomination and expression of interest forms for presidential candidates at N100 million naira. The party had also fixed the nomination and expression of interest forms “for governorship aspirants at N50 million, senatorial aspirants at N20 million, House of Representatives aspirants at N10 million and the State House of Assembly aspirants N2 million.” The decision of the ruling party had drawn the ire of the pubic as the National Chairman of Peoples Democratic Party, Dr. Iyorchia Ayu claimed that the high cost of the fees cast the APC in the image of rogues and hypocrites. Faulting the party’s decision yesterday, however, Oshun asked the APC-NWC under the chairmanship of Senator Adamu Abdullahi to review the presidential nominations and expression of interest form fee from N100 million to N25 million, representing a 75 percent reduction. As a founding member of the ruling party, Oshun said: “I believe the fees should be reviewed. The party leadership should not be ashamed to review it. I am totally against it. The criticism is everywhere.” According to him, a responsive party must, as a matter of fact, take into consideration the general feelings in the public. There must be a review of the nomination fees immediately in response to public criticism. On this ground, Oshun proposed that a presidential aspirant should not be obliged to pay more than N25 million while nomination fees for governorship, senatorial, House of Representatives and State House of Assembly should be reviewed downward accordingly. Oshun also suggested that an aspirant for the State House of Assembly “should not pay more than N500, 000,” emphasising that what “is more important is that the party can be run effectively from funds coming from the public office holders appointed or elected on the platform of the party.” He observed that those who were elected or appointed on the platform of the party “should be obliged to pay an insignificant percentage of their earnings to the party. In all respects, it is outrageous. I have been a faithful member of the party from its inception. “I know the sensitive nature of negotiations that gave birth to APC and the contribution of the legacy parties that formed the APC. It was meant to be a progressive party. It is a party with progressive inclination. “It is a party that believes in the restructuring of the federation. This is a vital aspect of the restructuring we should have in our country. When we talk about nomination for electoral aspirants, this is meant of course to discourage the genuine and capable hands. “I can understand if those who have been elected are mandated to contribute a part of their earnings because every party will need funds to run business or administration. Elected officials, apart from individual members, are expected to contribute a certain percentage of their basic salaries to the party,” Oshun explained. At various levels of the party, he noted that members of the National Assembly, for instance, “are expected to contribute some parts of their earnings directly to the party at the national level. I can understand if elected officials are obligated to pay the kind of huge fees. “I do not think that was the intention of the founding fathers of the party. I am sure many of the founding fathers will be disappointed. With these nomination fees, it shows it is the party for the rich. The APC is not meant to be the party for the rich. “Even an ordinary member of the House of Assembly who has not held any office, to cough out N2 million of honestly earned income will be difficult, not to mention N10 million for the House of Representatives, N20 million for Senators, N50 million and N100 million for the president. “The total earning of a governor in a year is about N50 million. That is to say you are applying for a job and you are given the entire money you are earning to be able to apply for the job. It is boisterous. I am sure the founding father of the party will be crying silently.”