 Last week, we started a discussion on Vaginitis, which is the inflammation of the vagina. We mentioned and explained types and some of the causes, this week, we will continue on more causes, signs, symptoms, complications and prevention. CAUSES OF VAGINITIS(CONTINUED) INFECTIOUS VAGINITIS Sprays, douches, detergents, and spermicides cause allergic reactions in the vaginal tissues. Tampons and tissues, for example, can create a type of non-infectious vaginitis that can be treated by removing the irritant. Vaginitis may also occur in young girls who are not sexually active but due to poor hygiene, particularly when they wipe from back to front, bringing fecal germs from the anus to the vagina. This is also known as vaginal atrophy. This inflammation occurs due to deficiency of the reproductive hormone estrogen.  The level of estrogen in a woman declines at a particular times like during menopause and while breastfeeding causing the inner layer of the vagina to shrink resulting to irritation, burning, edema, dryness, urine urgency and itching. Women with vaginal atrophy have a greater chance of developing chronic vaginal infections. This condition is common with a lot of postmenopausal women experience. It is also possible to get the condition if you are on estrogen-lowering medicine for breast cancer or endometriosis, or have diabetes. SIGNS AND SYMPTOMS OF VAGINITIS The symptoms of vaginitis vary depending on the cause of the infection or inflammation. Most women with vaginitis are asymptomatic. Some of the symptoms you could experience include: An abnormal vaginal discharge could include: Some women get recurrent vaginal infections, or the symptoms of vaginitis do not go away even after treatment. In such instances, you should visit a clinician. COMPLICATIONS OF VAGINITIS Vaginitis is one of the most common gynecological issues among women aged 15 to 45. Vaginitis can lead to more serious complications if left untreated. The following are some of the most common complication of untreated vaginitis: Sexually transmitted bacteria migrate from the vaginal to the upper reproductive tract, causing Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID). Bacteria that cause PID are commonly seen in chlamydia and gonorrhea. PID can lead to chronic pelvic pain, an abscess in the fallopian tubes or ovaries, ectopic pregnancies, and  infertility if left untreated. PREVENTION OF VAGINITIS Some cases of vaginitis can be avoided if you take a few precautions. The following are some of the most frequent techniques to prevent vaginitis: