 *As Osimhen, Oshoala, others emerge winners of 8th Pitch Awards President of Matchmakers Consult International, organisers of the annual Nigeria Pitch Awards, Mr. Shina Philips has expressed confidence in the present Super Eagles’ squad to go ahead and accomplish great things in the near future, despite the team’s failure to qualify for the 2022 FIFA World Cup finals. Philips insisted in Abuja at the weekend that the present squad has all the qualities to succeed, including youthfulness, talent, zest, ability and enterprise. “The Super Eagles’ team as presently constituted can still win a handful of laurels for Nigeria. I see a team with so much potential and capacity to deliver. They narrowly missed the World Cup ticket but that does not mean we have a poor team. They only lost on the away goal rule and that is a technicality that can undo any great team. “I want to respectfully call on all Nigerians to continue to support the team. The Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers are right here in a number of weeks and I am sure the players are eager to make amends.” Super Eagles’ forward Victor Osimhen emerged the biggest winner of the 8th edition of the Nigeria Pitch Awards held in Abuja last Week. The Napoli player, who was confirmed Player of the Month for March in the Italian Serie A, emerged the Striker of the Yearand the King of the Pitch, making him Nigeria’s Most Valuable Player for 2021. Super Falcons and FC Barcelona Femení goal-poacher, Asisat Oshoala continued her dominance of the women’s awards category as she was named the Queen of the Pitchfor the fourth time. In the Goalkeeper of the Year category, Maduka Okoye emerged winner while Super Eagles Captain, William Troost-Ekong beat Nigerian team mates Olisa Ndah and Leon Balogun to win the Defender of the Yearaward for the third time. Wilfred Ndidi of Leicester City FC was named the Midfielder of the Year and Victor Osimhen staved off competition from Genk FC’s Paul Onuachu and Leicester City FC’s Kelechi Iheanacho to lift the Striker of the Yearaward. In other categories, 2021 League winners, Akwa United and Coach Kennedy Boboye were voted the Team of the Yearand Coach of the Yearrespectively.