 Segun Awofadeji in Bauchi A group known as the United Arewa Youth for Justice and Development (UAYJD), has thrown it’s weight behind the decision of the Northern Elders Forum led by Prof. Ango Abdullahi, over the endorsement of the Bauchi State Governor, Senator Bala Mohammed and former Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki, as northern presidential consensus candidates of the PDP ahead of the 2023 presidential primaries of the party. This was contained in a press statement by Director of Public Affairs UAYJD, Mr. Suleiman Abubakar, which was made available to newsmen in Bauchi last weekend. The statement said that the UAYJD are on the same page with the Northern elders who have been vested with a national assignment that will help the north to give Nigerians one of their best in order to guide against the mistakes of 2015 and 2019. “As we embark on the second phase of this critical assignment, the two aspirants chosen by our elders should work together with the support of other major stakeholders and decide on which of them should emerge as the sole consensus PDP northern presidential candidate. “The criteria used by the elders, revealed that the North- East in terms of zonal assessment have been considered as Governor Bala Mohammed was not the only individual from the zone, hence factors of eguity, Justice and fairness should not be ignored in any attempt as we continue on this historic efforts. “To this end, with Bala Mohammed as northern consensus candidate, the rest of Nigerians will understand that as northerners, we have done justice to ourselves as Bala is a detribalized leader who has been tested and trusted as former minister of the federal capital territory, an achiever per excellence as an incumbent governor of Bauchi state. “The commitment of readiness demonstrated by his Excellency, Bala Mohammed since his endorsement by our elders to lead discussion with all other aspirants in the PDP with a view to having a national consensus is encouraging and this tells us that he is the man for the job, if we truly want to succeed,” the statement said. 2023: Jubilation in Nsukka as Senator Utazi declines Senatorial ambition in support of Gov. Ugwuanyi’s bid *Enugu North Senatorial District PDP delegates reassure governor of 100% support for his preferred candidates There was jubilation in Enugu North Senatorial District of Enugu State, yesterday as the senator representing the district in the National Assembly, Senator Chukwuka Utazi, formally announced his decision not to contest the senatorial seat in the forthcoming Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) primaries and the general elections, to pave way for the smooth and peaceful emergence of Governor of Enugu State, Mr. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, as senator in the 10th National Assembly. Senator Utazi, who made the announcement while addressing the delegates of the PDP from Enugu North Senatorial District and other stakeholders of the party, said he did not purchase the expression of interest and nomination forms of the party for the senatorial seat to give Gov. Ugwuanyi, who he described as “our leader and brother,” maximum support. The federal lawmaker added amid jubilation that the decision was also to promote the existing peace in Enugu North Senatorial district in particular and Enugu State in general. He reassured Ugwuanyi that the PDP family in Enugu North Senatorial District and the entire people of the district are solidly behind him and his political decisions in respect of choice of candidates during the forthcoming party primaries, saying: “We will follow our brother and leader; we are going to be behind you; and pray that God will guide to take these decisions. “We are here to give you reassurance that it is ordained by God that you do the things you are supposed to do. We are here to also reassure that you have our backing. Our case is not just political. The followership and backing are also spiritual. And you have our spiritual backing too. We are going to continue this support at the voting level during the general elections.”