 For a man like Elijah Joseph Okoeguale, fashion goes beyond a statement, it is an integral part of existence. His foundational philosophy is that one cannot afford not to have style. To him, fashion is a source of power, a transformational element, and a lifestyle. This informed his foray into the world of fashion. Elijah, is a luxurious personal stylist extraordinaire, stylist, fashion entrepreneur, wardrobe consultant, personal shopper, and style influencer. The graduate of Ambrose Ali University Ekpoma in Edo state has an acumen for business and this is why apart from being a fashion titan, he is a multipotential entrepreneur. His wide net of businesses includes automobiles, real estate, printing press, fashion, and a host of others. Mr Joseph is the Chief Executive Officer, FleetPro specialities, EJ realtors, Pro Print Multimedia as well as the Chairman of Elijoe Group. Elijah has seen his lengthy career span include styling celebrities, influential figures, couples, and political figures. He aims to collaborate with household luxury signatures like Gucci, and Louis Vuitton among others. His Midas touch lends the need for him to expand his empire to include a fashion store and this is why he floated, 231 Signatures, his fashion brainchild. Describing the founding of 231 Signatures, he states that; “I wanted to create something for people that understand style, something they can embrace as their own without having to settle for less. 231 Signatures provides specialized services including vogue fashion, seasonal wear, on-demand apparel, and next-generation style, and we don’t just sell ourselves a brand, we make our clients and customers, a brand in their own right. The ripple effect of people gaining confidence tells on us as not a fluke but as a brand that walks its talks.” “231signatures is a high standard premium clothing brand. It is a name people trust and this contributes immensely not to just what we can do but what we can be.” He noted that the brand will be expanding its services in the next few years as its main goal is to become a globally accepted brand. “Fashion transcends borders and this is why 231 Signatures will go beyond Nigeria. We are looking at our African expansion including top markets like South Africa and Kenya. We are currently in talks to launch in Dubai in the near future as well as to expand to the United States and the United Kingdom,” he said. 231 Signatures is a brand that covers premium garments across male and female lines. It appeals to unique and classy tastes. It provides custom-made, high fashion apparel ready to wear designs.