 Wale Igbintade A Lagos Federal High Court, yesterday, convicted a Vessel Captain, Mr. Omosehin Ipinle, and sentenced him to one year imprisonment for unlawful possession of 120 metric tonnes of Automotive Gas Oil (AGO), popularly called diesel. The Trial Judge, Justice Nicholas Oweibo, equally convicted the vessel, MV D’ Dove, used in stealing the petroleum product and forfeited it with the stolen120 metric tonnes to the Federal Government of Nigeria. The convict and the forfeited vessel alongside one Nsikak Friday, were arraigned before the court, on charges bordering on conspiracy, unlawful dealing and unlawful storage of 120 metric tonnes of AGO, by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) in a charge marked FHC/L/38/2018. The offences, according to the Prosecutor, Mr. Mohammed Abass, were contrary to Section 3(6); 1(17) and  of the Miscellaneous Offences Act, Cap M 17, Law the Federation of Nigeria 2004 and punishable under Section 1(17) the same Act. And Section 4 of the Petroleum Act Cap P10, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria 2004. They were admitted to bail after they pleaded not guilty to the allegations. However, during their trial, the third defendant, Nsikak Friday, jumped bail and never turned up for his trial. At the resumed hearing of the suit, the convict changed his plea and entered a plea bargain agreement with the EFCC. The terms of plea bargain agreed by both parties were that “the defendants shall plead guilty to the offences. Also, the first defendant (MV D’ DOVE 1) and its content (120 MT of petroleum product) will be forfeited to the Federal Republic of Nigeria upon conviction by this Honourable Court; that a term of one year imprisonment is proposed to this Honourable Court to be imposed on the second defendant, upon their conviction by this Honourable Court. “And that the defendant shall upon their release from the Nigerian Correctional Facilities enter into a bond with the EFCC to be of good behaviour and never to be involved in any economic and financial crimes, illegitimate or criminal act within and outside the shores of this Federal Republic of Nigeria. “Upon the adoption of the terms of plea bargain agreement, Justice Oweibo consequently, convicted and sentenced the Captain to a year imprisonment while also ordered the forfeiture of the vessel, MV D’ Dove and its content, 120 metric Tonnes of AGO to the Federal Government of Nigeria. Justice Oweibo, however, ordered that the Captain’s jail term commenced from March 9, 2021, when the plea bargain agreement was entered.