 The second term ambition of Governor Dapo Abiodun of Ogun State has gotten a boost as a political group within the All Progressives Congress (APC) has issued a N50 million cheque for him, to purchase his nomination and expression of interest forms. The group, under the aegis of “Dapo Abiodun Mandate” announced the donation of the money at a news conference held in the premises of Abiodun’s country home in Iperu, Ikenne Local Government area of the state. Announcing the donation, the convener of the group, Biyi Adeleye said, the donation was the right thing to do giving the unprecedented achievements of the governor in the last three years. He noted that, the donation also served as an endorsement of the governor’s second term bid in office Adeleye, who is also a Special Adviser to Abiodun on Political Affairs, said the governor must be given all the supports he needs to complete the good works he has started in the state. He said, the governor had touched every part of the state with development projects and must be encouraged to not only complete the projects, but also do more for the people of the state. Adeleye said, “We are members of Dapo Abiodun Mandate Group having watched and worked with Governor Dapo Abiodun over last few years, we have realised that his government enjoys total approval from God and good people of Ogun State having demonstrated that his government is a divine and deliberate government to right the wrong of the past administration by not only concentrating all projects and effort in one region or senatorial district, leaving the rest untouched. “Governor Dapo Abiodun has touched all the Senatorial districts, every local government in Ogun State. “He also took it upon himself to complete all the abandoned projects of the past government because government is continuous. “Hence, the Dapo Abiodun Mandate as a group is compelled to purchase the nomination and expression of interest forms for our principal in endorsement of his second term in office, having made us proud as a silent achiever who works his talks by not promising to do everything but doing everything he has promised.” Also speaking, a member of the group, Armstrong ‘Tope Akintunde, said the group, has also raised a 20-member delegation, to accompany Abiodun, to the APC Secretariat, in Abuja, where he will collect the form. He said, “DA Legacy is what we need in Ogun State for continuation of all-round developmental projects in the state saying “only continuity can deepen our democracy. “The N50 million donation is like scholarship award to a brilliant student irrespective of whether that student can afford school fee. “We have started aggressive mobilisation for the incumbent governor to ensure his success both at the party’s primary and during the general election and anybody contesting against him is wasting his or her time.”