 One of the hottest music producer taglines in the late 2010s was “It’s Young Jonn the wicked producer”. One can hardly think of a more suitable description for him, as his instrumentals were infectious and were a party starter all over the country. With hits like Efejoku, Is It Because I Love You, Konkobility, Wo!! and Don’t Call Me, it is safe to say that Young Jonn has left his mark on the Nigerian soundscape as a producer. His success as a producer is what makes Young Jonn’s new move truly exciting. The Wicked Producer has come full circle and is now a singer. Now signed to Chocolate City Music, Young Jonn is ready to explore the full extent of his artistry. While he is not the first producer to transition into a recording artiste, it is the seamless manner in which he has switched that makes him stand out. He floats on beats with the flow of a veteran and writes with the skill of a seasoned songwriter. On April 1, 2022, Young Jonn released his debut EP dubbed Love is Not Enough. Often stylized as L.I.N.E, the EP is Young Jonn’s re-entry into the Nigerian music industry, this time as a recording artiste. With the quality on offer on this EP, it is safe to say that he has made a grand entry. The EP is an Afropop tape with hiphop and Rnb influences. Across five songs, Young Jonn explores different themes of love. A special quality that stands out on this tape is Young Jonn’s ability to express his emotions clearly in his lyrics. On 32, the tape opener he sings “Baby sh’ongbo mi? Shey you dey hear my voice I’m screamin”, as he pleads with his ex lover to take him back. The captivating one-liners on Dada and Normally are also testament of his songwriting prowess. On Next To You, Young Jonn features American RnB singer Vedo, and their chemistry makes the song one of the highlights of the EP. Love is not Enough is an impressive debut EP, and gives the promise of exciting things to come from Young Jonn. He joins an illustrious list of Nigerian producer-cum-artiste that includes Maleek Berry, Pheelz and Ckay who are making waves around the globe. After spending over a decade behind the boards, the wicked producer is now a loverboy singer, and he is ready to shine.