 Seriki Adinoyi in Jos Plateau State Governor yesterday visited Kanam and Wase Local Government Areas over the recent killing of over 100 persons by terrorists. Lalong, who was accompanied by his Deputy, Prof. Sonni Tyoden; Secretary to Government, Prof. Danladi Atu; Chief of Staff, Noel Donjur as well as heads of security agencies, including the General Officer Commanding, 3 Armoured Division and Commissioner of Police, said he was devastated by the senseless massacre of innocent villagers in the affected areas. Lalong, who was at the Palace of the Emir of Kanam, Muhammdu Babangida Muazu where he condoled with him over the unfortunate development, urged the federal government to do more by deploying security forces to the affected areas on a permanent basis as well as see to it that intelligence given to the security agencies is acted upon expeditiously. The governor later visited injured survivors receiving treatment at the Kanam General Hospital, Dengi, where he sympathised with them and directed that all their medical expenses be settled by the government. Later at an interactive session with stakeholders at the Kanam Townhall, Dengi, the governor said he was in the area to get further briefing on the attacks and ascertain the situation of survivors. He described the incident as regrettable and unfortunate, urging the people not to be dismayed as the government was doing everything possible to arrest those behind the attacks and ensure that the sad incident does not occur again. He added that, “Those who committed this heinous crime may think that they have escaped, but I can assure you that we will never allow them to go free no matter how long it takes. I am sure that God will also not allow them to go unpunished for taking the precious lives of others without reason.” The governor reassured the people that the state was working with the federal government to find lasting solutions to insecurity on the Plateau, the North-central and entire Northern region. He said that he has briefed President Muhammadu Buhari and appealed for a coordinated approach to tackling terrorist attacks in the North-central particularly at border areas and ungoverned spaces which have become operational bases for the terrorists who crisscross communities causing damage to lives and properties. The Emir thanked the governor for the visit and said that the people have been devastated over the mass killings which have no provocation or any justification because his people are peace loving and only pursuing their livelihoods, basically farming and trading.