 David-Chyddy Eleke in Awka Anambra State Governor, Prof. Chukwuma Soludo, yesterday inaugurated 20 commissioners to aid the performance of his administration. Soludo, a former Central Bank Governor, swore them in at the executive chambers of the government house, Awka, stating clearly that the appointment of the commissioners “is a call to serve and not one to celebrate.” He said: “This is a call to work and not a call to celebrate. When I say congratulations to you, I also say commiserations. You have been appointed to serve Anambra, and you must provide service. “The challenges are enormous. That is why you have also offered to serve. During my campaign, I told everyone that the work put in to get office is just five percent, 95 percent of the work comes after swearing in, and you must bear that in mind. “I charge you to read the oath of office and oath of allegiance very carefully and follow them. Where people see it as celebration, you see it as work. Your eyes must be on the ball always. Always think of how your ministry will be, how will Anambra be better. If I were you, I would like to write down how I like to be remembered after serving as commissioner.” Soludo also apologised ahead of time to the commissioners and other appointees, saying he would be very demanding, and would task them hugely for result. He also told the commissioners that they were selected fit for their office, and their appointments are away from the normal procedure of sending names to the legislature for screening, after which ministries are apportioned. “As your chief servant, I have to tell you that I will be very demanding. I have to apologise ahead of time because I will be very demanding and once we fix a meeting for nine, you must all be seated before nine, and that is the culture we want to maintain. “The Soludo solution which was our slogan during the campaign is not just a promise, but you must all work to make it a reality, to create and build that livable Anambra State which we promised. “I’m happy that you went to your screening knowing fully which ministry you are going to head. “In the past, you go for screening without knowing which ministry you will lead, and later they start thinking of which ministry to send you to, whether to send you to a lucrative ministry or to send you to another. But here, all of you were selected fit for your office. You were selected, knowing your competence in a particular field, and you must deliver,” Soludo said.