 Abidemi who doubles as an agripreneur and Human Resources Personnel is of the notion that growing food naturally is safe and better for the family living. In relation to her view she shares, “As a Mother of one in Nigeria I understand how difficult it can be to have access to fresh and whole organic food. So shopping for food produce comes with its disadvantages such as farm produce not being fresh and no immediate access to organic farm produce. So I ventured into home gardening which would be a reliable solution to these problems as my major challenge is mitigating malnutrition and having access to fresh farm produce that have not been contaminated with industrial based pesticides and fertilizers. I have been actively growing food for my family for 3 years in my limited urban space and it has given us access to quality products that have been of tremendous health benefits.” She further attested that the benefits of growing your food cannot be overemphasized. As growing your food provides a solution to various problems ranging from health, environmental and economic. Emphasizing more on the importance of growing your own food she stated that it provides access to fresh farm produce which gives easier access to farm produce rather than getting to shops for these items and it also improves family bond as its a fun, family-friendly activity that allows kids to get their hands dirty and learn where their food comes from. “Growing your own food is less hazardous as home wastes can be channeled into these gardens to prevent negative environmental impact and also serve as a source of fertilizer for your garden as plants in the home garden help prevent erosion.” She added. Furthermore she added that it helps to save money and it’s health benefits is limitless as food gardening helps mitigate malnutrition giving us access to varieties of naturally grown foods that are still high in phytochemicals and nutrients which have not been treated with chemical based pesticides or chemical fertilizers which have proven to be harmful for human consumption. In conclusion she advises that girl gardening helps to keep one physically active sharing that, “Gardening is a form of exercise which helps to keep the body physically fit. Instead of going through strenuous activities in gyms to keep your body active, gardening is a less strenuous way that gives the same desired result. Gardening helps improve cardiac health, boost the immune system, improve flexibility and body skills.”