National President, UNILORIN Alumni Association, Dr. Stephen Fasakin has insisted that he is still the presiding leader of the association despite pending cases in court on the dissolution of the National Executive Committee (NEC). In a statement he released yesterday, Fasakin accused the association’s past presidents of brazen impunity and resort to self-help by calling for congress in contravention of the constitution of the association. He said: “Has the Alumni Association’s constitution been amended? That is a big question begging for an answer from the past presidents. “Perhaps, these people are above the constitution of the association or they are conferred with certain powers, unknown to the rest of us that can make them suspend the Constitution. “They need to confirm their position on those questions, really,” Fasakin said in a statement personally signed yesterday. He recalled that some members of the NEC had approached the Kwara State High Court for the interpretation of certain provisions of the association’s constitution on the power of Prof. Durosaro to preside over NEC meeting, suspension of the NEC at the meeting, constitutionality of three committees constituted at the meeting and the power of NEC to ratify recommendations of the committee. He said: “Amongst our reliefs in court is an order restraining the respondents from disturbing or interfering with the functions of the elected NEC in ratification of the unconstitutional recommendation of the committee. “In a show of disrespect to the Court, despite the service of the processes on the 1st Respondent, he went ahead to preside over the February 19 NEC meeting where they claimed they had decided the matter before the Court by themselves. “What an impunity and a disrespect for the Court? Even when we filed an application for a restorative injunction and served them with it, they still went ahead to illegally call for Congress. “By the constitution of the association, it is only the NEC that can organise congress. How the chairman of a so-called body of past presidents masquerading as the NEC without the involvement of the NEC gets the power to call Congress beats my imagination. It’s against our constitution. “Certainly, it is a declaration of lawlessness when all things are lawful unto you or your acts or words become the law as much as you wish. This is what is playing out in this case. To them, Fasakin must leave or go, no matter how we do it, constitutionally or otherwise. “It does not matter what they did now and how they did it. The court is there as an arbiter. I believe the court is established for a purpose, which is justice, and nothing but Justice.”