Chinedu EzeEmirates Airlines has announced that following the demand of its customers, it would add more flights to its existing daily service to Abuja and Lagos. The airline said it would increase its weekly flights to Lagos to 11, stating that it took the decision in order to meet the yearnings of its customers in and out of the market as well as to provide customers in Nigeria more access to Dubai and onwards to its global network. “Emirates is offering customers increased connectivity to and from Lagos and Abuja, to Dubai and beyond to the airline’s global network of over 120 destinations,” the airline said in a statement.Emirates explained that its services would increase to double daily from September 1, 2022, taking the airline’s services to pre-pandemic levels. The additional flight from Dubai to Lagos would operate as EK781, departing Dubai at 0400 hours, and arriving in Lagos at 0840 hours, local time. It stated that the return flight would operate as EK782, departing Lagos at 1205 hours and landing in Dubai at 2250 hours, local time. “Emirates will also ramp up its services to Abuja in line with accelerated demand to and from Nigeria’s capital city, offering five weekly flights starting from 1 May, 2022, and then a daily service from 1 September, 2022. “The increased services demonstrate Emirates’ commitment to Nigeria, as it continues to respond to increasing demand for international air travel by offering more choice and flexibility to its customers,” the airline stated.Emirates also announced it would ramp up its global operations with the restart of services to four destinations, including:  Bali (1 May), London Stansted (1 August), Rio de Janeiro (2 November), and Buenos Aires (2 November). The airline has also announced it would boost services to Mauritius and Singapore to serve market demand. “In line with the easing of travel restrictions worldwide, Emirates continues to rebuild and expand its global network to meet travel demand. “Emirates continues to lead the industry with innovative products and services and recently took its customer care initiatives further with even more generous and booking policies,” the Middle East carrier added.