Madrid soccer club is one of the favorites in the current Champions League. Carlo Ancelotti’s team knocked out Chelsea and advanced to the semifinals of the tournament, reports Beeton.ng. Bookmakers believe that Real Madrid have a chance against Manchester City. Although Betway’sexperts give odds of 1.95 for the victory of the English club. To see quotes for Champions League matches, you need to open the official website of the bookmaker or install Betway app on your smartphone. As for Real Madrid’s transfer policy, the club can strengthen its squad in the summer. In particular, Antonio Rüdiger will move from Chelsea to Real. According to journalist Fabrizio Romano, the Madrid club and the 29-year-old defender have agreed on a contract until June 2026. Before signing all the necessary documents, some details remain to be sorted out. Even if Toni signs with Real Madrid in May, the transfer will not be announced until the end of the season. Earlier, Chelsea coach Thomas Tuchel confirmed that Rüdiger will leave the club in the summer: “Our hands are tied because of the sanctions. Chelsea will miss him.” The player has played 47 games for Chelsea this season, scoring five goals and giving two assists. PSG is trying to convince Kylian Mbappe to give up his move to Real Madrid this summer. According to The Athletic, the Madrid club is still confident that the forward will join the club in the summer. However, PSG is offering Kylian a very lucrative short-term contract and is also convinced that Mbappe, who is now 23, could join Real Madrid later. PSG are ready to sign Mbappe for 2-3 years. At the same time, the Frenchman is not expected to work this agreement to the end. The forward, whose contract runs until the summer, has scored 33 goals and given 18 assists in 42 games for PSG in all competitions this season. Manchester City winger Riyad Marez is of interest to Real Madrid. According to L’Équipe, the Algerian, whose contract with Manchester City runs until the summer of 2023, has not yet agreed with the club to sign a new deal. If the two sides do not agree on a continuation, Man City will try to sell Marez this summer. The right winger is valued at 30-40 million euros. The midfielder has scored 23 goals and given 8 assists in 41 games for Man City in all competitions this season. Also note that Real Madrid midfielder Isco could move to Betis as a free agent at the end of the season. The Andalusian club offered the 30-year-old Spaniard a 2-year contract, according to which he will be in the top 3 at Betis in terms of salary. Betis head coach Manuel Pellegrini knows Isco well from working together at Malaga. The midfielder has a shortage of playing practice at Real Madrid. His contract with the Madrid club runs until June 30 this year. Gareth Bale may also leave Real Madrid. He can continue his career in MLS. Negotiations with representatives of the midfielder are conducted by D.C. United, according to The Washington Post journalist Stephen Goff. Communication began months ago, but has not led to tangible results. The sides are exchanging offers. It remains to be seen if the talks will move to the final stage. DC United is willing to pay Bale more than Wayne Rooney, who moved to the American club from Everton in 2018 and spent two seasons there. Recall that Bale’s contract with Real expires in June. He will leave the Madrid club as a free agent.