Society Watch  For Samson Itodo, the Executive Director of Yiaga Africa, eagles will be eagles and bantams will be bantams, regardless of the change of weather. Ever since he came to national and global consciousness with his gospel of constitutional and electoral governance, civic engagement and public accountability, the Master’s degree holder in Law has continued to astound many with his deliverables, impacts and visionary leadership, especially among youths. Last week, the highly influential not-for-profit independent organisation, Kofi Annan Foundation, zoomed its lens towards the direction of Itodo and appointed him as a member of its prestigious Board of Directors. “I am particularly happy to welcome Samson to the Board of the Foundation,” said the Chair of the Board, Elhadj As Sy, a former Secretary-General of the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (IFRC). Itodo, who has a far-reaching and credible reputation among prominent personalities in the corridors of power, was the brains behind the Not Too Young To Run movement that led to the reduction of age limits for running for public office in Nigeria. The development expert, who recently earned a Masters of Public Policy at the Blavatnik School of Government at the University of Oxford in the United Kingdom, was appointed a member of the Board of the International Institute for Democracy and Electoral Assistance (IDEA) in 2020. With him, the defining qualification is brilliance and focus. He has continued to raise the bar of youth advocacy, using the tools of social networks, civic engagement and inclusive collaboration. Two years ago, he was appointed by the Gates Foundation as a Goalkeeper and honoured by the National Democratic Institute (NDI) Washington DC as the 2018 Rising Democracy leader in Africa. He has won state recognition in the UK, Sweden and South Africa, where he holds a fellowship in the prestigious Archbishop Desmond Tutu Leadership programme, as well as the Nelson Mandela School of Public Governance at the University of Cape Town.