 Blessing Ibunge in Port Harcourt The Minister of Transportation, Mr. Rotimi Chibuike Amaechi, has assured that if he is elected into office as the President of Nigeria in 2023, he would ensure that the nation remains united with stable democracy. Amaechi who officially declared his intention to contest the 2023 presidency, said his aspiration was for the interest and benefit of Nigerians. In his speech titled; ‘Forward with Courage’, Saturday, at a special thanksgiving organised by the All Progressives Congress (APC), in Rivers State, the presidential aspirant said he arrived at the decision to contest for the highest level of leadership in the country after intensive consultation. Amaechi narrated that he had served the country for about 23 years in different capacity, ranging from being a Speaker of the Rivers State House of Assembly, Governor of Rivers state and currently serving as Minister of Transportation. He said he had a rich experience in governance and understands the meaning of good leadership, adding that he would contribute to the development of the nation. The leader of APC in the South South expressed concern over the hardship in the country, adding that the insecurity and other challenges faced in Nigeria may be global problem, but assured a better future for Nigerians. He noted that the current administration of President Muhammadu Buhari had done well in building a better Nigeria, but promised to do more by improving the economy of the nation and complementing the existing projects of the federal government. “I stand before you today to declare my intention and submit my application to serve as your next President. “My aspiration is not about fulfilling any personal ambition. I am contesting for the office because I believe that it is my moral duty to give what I can in the service of my country. “To sustain and intensify present efforts at solving our national problems, our democracy must ensure the emergence of a leadership that is equipped with broad experience in governance to ensure stability and continuity. To sustain our democracy and preserve our unity, we need a steady hand and a passion for success in a nation that remains united to pursue prosperity for all Nigerians. “It is this combination of experience and patriotic passion that I bring to the table. I have been in the political arena for 23 years. I have served at every level of government – local, state, and federal. I have served both as a political appointee and an elected official. I have served both as an executive – as Governor of Rivers State and as a legislator – as Speaker of the State House of Assembly. “The current administration under the able leadership of President Muhammadu Buhari has planted many such trees in Nigeria’s future. We have invested billions in infrastructure, human capital development and made reforms that will pay off over time in terms of socio-economic growth and stability. We have invested heavily in projects and initiatives that will secure a brighter, better future for Nigeria. “Today, I stand as an aspirant to the position of President because of that same passion for people; that same drive for results. More than ever before, I am burning with the zeal to make a decisive difference in the lives of all Nigerians. “I pledge my heart, mind and soul to the task of building a Nigeria in which every child can go to school, every young person can find work or support to start a business, every citizen can travel safely around the country and sleep at night knowing that law and order prevails and every Nigerian feels included, heard, and respected.” Earlier, in their various goodwill massages, Adams Oshiomole, Governor Simon Lalong, Deputy Speaker of House of Representative, Idris Wase, Federal Ministers and other big wigs of the party lauded the Minister of Transportation for taking the step to run for presidency. Oshiomhole, a former National Chairman of APC and former Governor of Edo State, commended Amaechi for the unity and reconciliation in Rivers APC, and called for stronger bond among party faithful. Oshiomhole said: “Let me appreciate the man who has invited us for the thanksgiving and for the reconciliation of the party in the state. I want to appreciate the Minister of Transportation Chibuike Amaechi, who has extended his invitation. “I am excited that we have united our party in Rivers State. I am here to witness the unity of APC in Rivers State. May God help us to uphold this unity, and service and remove bitterness in every heart and position us for victory.