Ignatius Muotoh writes that the UK arm of the Igbo culture apex body, Ohaneze Ndigbo has overcome its  period of turbulence with the emergence of a new leadership After a very difficult period of turbulence characterized by a spell of musical chairs, peace and calm has returned Ohaneze Ndigbo UK with the emergence of a new leadership.In a ground-breaking event held in London on Saturday, March 26,  2022, Ohanaeze Ndigbo UK has elected a new Executive Committee to pilot its affairs for the next two years. A renowned UN Development Expert in the person of Professor Joe Ukemenem (‘Omeluoha’) was elected as the new President of Ohanaeze Ndigbo UK, while Barrister Kingsley Offor was elected as the Deputy President in the process widely adjudged as the most credible, fair and transparent election in the history of Ohanaeze Ndigbo UK. Others elected into the Executive Committee are: Barr Kingsley M A Offor (Deputy President), Chief Godwin Ogbonnaya (Vice President – Abia State), Prince Lotanna Chima (Vice President Anambra State), Chief Godwin Isebor (Vice President Delta State), Chief Oliver Asiegbu (Organising Secretary), Prince Ernest Atuenyi (Treasurer) and Mazi Charles Nwaogwugwu (Publicity Secretary).  The electronic voting system adopted for the first time in an Ohanaeze Ndigbo UK election enabled those who could not physically attend the meeting to fully participate in the process and to cast their votes for candidates of their choice. The event themed ‘Resetting the Igbo Agenda in the diaspora’ also witnessed an unprecedented turn out of well-meaning Igbo men resident in the UK. In his acceptance speech, the President-elect Prof Ukemenem expressed his profound gratitude to Ndi Igbo for entrusting him to drive the change in this new era of required Igbo survival and commitment to the development and progression of Igbo culture, heritage and civilization. He thanked the Interim Management Committee ably led by Chief Dr Azuka Benson for their immense sacrifices and enduring commitment towards the progress of Ndigbo in the UK. According to Prof Ukemenem, ‘the Eagle has eventually landed with the real men of Igbo extraction residing in the UK taking the bull by the horn to restore the integrity of the Igbo nation through this re-orgnisation of Ohanaeze Ndigbo UK’. The President-elect promised ‘to do what it takes to restore the good name of Ndi Igbo and to place Ohanaeze at the vintage of heights where it should be and in front’. A date for the swearing-in ceremony of the newly elected Executives of Ohanaeze Ndigbo UK will be announced soon. It would be recalled that following the widespread outcry of Ndigbo in the UK over the numerous irregularities that marred the last Ohanaeze Ndigbo UK election of November 20, 2021, the General House declared that purported election to be null and void and unanimously agreed it was (and still is) repugnant to the constitution and convention of Ohanaeze Ndigbo UK and Worldwide, as well as repugnant to the culture of Ndigbo.