 * Redeems Pledge to 1994 Nations Cup Champions Laleye Dipo in Minna President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday commissioned a national housing estate project in Minna, Niger State, and described the project as one of the “change” that was promised by his administration. Buhari at the commissioning directed that 22 members of the Tunisia 94 victorious Super Eagles should opt for any of the houses in the state of their choice. He said: “This is one of the projects undertaken by our Government in Phases since 2016 when our party, the APC sought your mandate to form the government in 2015, one of the things we promised was change. “We certainly cannot meet every one of those Nigerians in person, but our economic policies and investments in infrastructures such as this National Housing Programme and others will reach and positively impact many of the people.” Buhari, who was represented by the Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, Ambassador Zubair Dada, also said that the keys and documents of the houses should be handed over to willing members of the victorious Super Eagles while the rest should be allocated to interested members of the public. Buhari declared that the gesture “provides an opportunity to remember our heroes, the valiant Super Eagles to whom our country made a promise of providing houses for winning the 1994 African Cup of Nations, which has remained unfulfilled. “On behalf of the Federal Government of Nigeria, I feel proud and privileged to redeem the promise Nigeria made to these patriotic Nigerians, even if belatedly.” He, however, noted that though Nigerians at the bottom of pyramid such as artisans, builders, food vendors, skilled and unskilled workers might not benefit from the housing scheme, they would still enjoy other economic policies, programmes and investment of the government. Buhari disclosed that the federal government has awarded a maintenance contracts to small businesses to ensure that the houses are maintained and kept in good conditions. The Minister of Works and Housing, Mr. Babatunde Raji Fashola, in an address during the event, said that the ministry is undertaking the construction of over 6,000 housing units in 45 sites, out of which 2,465 units have been completed in 35 states and the FCT. Fashola further stated that over 1,200 building contractors were engaged under Phases I, II and III of the programme since its inception in 2016, adding that over 14,500 direct and 50,140 indirect jobs were created. Represented by the Ministry’s Zonal Director for South-West, Mr.  Mohammed Mohammed, the Minister said that over 80-units of houses comprising four units of one-bedroom, 52-units of two-bedroom, 20 units three bedroom and four units three bedroom (using stabilised earth) bungalows have been completed and handed over to the Niger State Government. The Niger State Governor, Mr. Abubakar Sani Bello, who was represented by the Deputy Governor of Niger State, Mr. Ahmed Mohammed Ketso, said that in the Phase One, 80 housing units programme of federal government would go a long way to alleviate housing challenges in state.