Road Safety  She is 21 years old. She lives in Pennsylvania in the United States of America. I do not know what she does, neither do I know if she is married or a single mother. I am sure she has siblings; maybe parents too. These are family members whose emotional bonding and wellbeing must be top priority to her. Unfortunately she failed to display the same empathy on the wellbeing of others who share the road. I am sure you are wondering if I am doing an expose on her. Well I am not but merely trying to bring you up to speed with a recent event which those who are freaky about speeding, dangerous driving as well as driving under the influence should note. Jayana Tanae Webb is her name. She is in the news not for winning a lottery or being cast in a lead role in an oncoming Hollywood movie. Rather she is in the news for a tragedy whose outcome even her haters may not like. A tragedy whose outcome she already regrets despite all the bragado if you permit the usage. The 21-year-old woman is the one who on precisely 15 January,2022, had bragged that, “if you ask me, I am the best drunk driver.” I do not know if her claim before the avoidable tragedy was   restricted to Pennsylvania or the whole United States of America or even perhaps the Universe. She boasted of her drunk driving skills on Twitter but has now been arrested and charged with murder after  car crash that killed a pedestrian and two state troopers on Interstate 95 about two  months after her boast According  to reports surfed, the  Pennsylvania State Police  arrested and charged Jayana Tanae Webb of Eagleville with third-degree murder, homicide by vehicle while  driving under the influence(DUI), homicide by vehicle, manslaughter of a law enforcement officer in the second degree,  and other charges. The suspect had been pulled over on suspicion of drunk driving and after the tragic incident, she had blood alcohol content over the legal limit. This best drunk driver in the world for 2022 was arraigned for her ‘‘heroic murderous act’’ and is currently being held without bail to drive home the seriousness of this infraction which a typical Nigerian road user would have waived aside as mere traffic infraction destined by Almighty God. The crash like I told you earlier, took place in South Philadelphia on Monday 23March, 2022, a week after her bragging,   on I-95 South in the area of Milepost 18 near the Stadium Complex, located just north of Broad Street. It further states that the State police troopers, like the Federal Road Safety Corps operatives killed by unknown gunmen in Anambra State over the weekend while performing their lawful duties, were responding to reports of a man walking along I-95 South. They were assisting the 28years old man, identified as Reyes Rivera Oliveras, of Allentown, into the back of their vehicle. While attempting to speed past the scene, Webb who had earlier been pulled over before the distress call, hit the two state troopers, Oliveras the pedestrian and the police car. The impact of the hit was so great that the troopers were killed on the scenes. Webb remained at the scene. According to the Pennsylvania State Police Commissioner Robert Evanchick the tragedy has caused the Police department heartbreak. In a solidarity message, he asked fellow Pennsylvanians to keep the families of the troopers identified as 33-year-old Martin Mack and 29-year-old Branden Sisca and the pedestrian in their thoughts and prayers while for me I urge motorists in Nigeria to think through their bad driving habits. There is no doubt that she is indeed the best driver in town as boasted. The alleged drunk driver, Jayana Tanae Webb, faces three counts of third-degree murder after prosecutors said she killed troopers Branden Sisca, 29, and Martin Mack III, 33, along with pedestrian Reyes Rivera Oliveras, 28, on the shoulder of I-95 on Monday night in Philadelphia. . Sisca and Mack left behind wives. Mack had two children while Sisca’s widow is pregnant. Drowned in uncontrollable tears, Webb allegedly admitted to driving under the influence as she was arraigned on 18 felony counts, including two counts of manslaughter of a law enforcement officer What actually are the  Bottom of Form penalties for killing someone while driving drunk in the United States. The offences I gathered from the web are quite severe. A motorist who is convicted for driving under the influence-killing risk felony charges that carry jail or prison time or fines. It also carries license suspension or revocation which is a must best practice which we must fully implement as a consequent strategy to stop the avoidable killings on our roads. The motorist therefore faces felony charges although the state laws differ on how such infractions are charged. There are several options open to the prosecutor. One of such options is the State statutes that specify more severe penalties for driving under the influence offenses involving deaths. In Michigan, for instance, a  first offender driving while intoxicated  faces up to 93 days in jail and a maximum of $500 in fines. But a Michigan same  offender who causes the death of another person is guilty of a felony and faces up to 15 years in prison and $2,500 to $10,000 in fines. Aside from the Michigan example, lots of states have laws   that are specific to driving-related unlawful killings. For example, in Florida, a motorist can be convicted of “vehicular homicide” for causing the death of another while driving in a “reckless manner.” The vehicular homicide statute applies to all killings that result from driving in a reckless manner including driver intoxication. In Florida, road traffic crash homicide conviction is a second-degree felony and carries up to 15 years in prison and a maximum of $10,000 in fines. Florida law also provides a DUI enhancement that makes driving under the influence-related killing a second or first-degree felony. So, for driving under the influence related killings, Florida prosecutors can choose whether to charge vehicular homicide, the DUI-death enhancement, or both. In the case of California, there is no driving under the influence death enhancement (unless multiple victims were killed or injured) California however has vehicular manslaughter laws specific to driving under the influence related offenses. A California driving under the influence offender who through negligence or gross negligence violates a traffic law or does a lawful act which might produce death in an unlawful manner and kills another person can be charged with “negligent vehicular manslaughter while intoxicated” or “gross vehicular manslaughter while intoxicated.” Depending on the circumstances, a convicted motorist faces four years to life in prison. Even if a state has laws that specifically apply to driving or driving under the influence related killings, a motorist who kills another while driving under the influence maybe convicted of a general crime like involuntary manslaughter or second-degree murder. This is why our dear Webb is in tears.