  Michael Olugbode in Abuja Nigerians in Diaspora Commission, (NiDCOM) has condemned alleged profiling and detention of Nigerians and others African nationals in Poland detention centres. The Chairman/CEO of NIDCOM, Hon. Abike Dabiri-Erewa in a signed statement by Gabriel Odu of the Media, Public Relations and Protocol Unit of the Commission, said the profiling and detention of Nigerians and other African nationals in Poland detention centres is highly unacceptable and reprehensible. She gave the condemnation at the Psycho-social Trauma Clinic for Ukraine returnees organised in partnership with National Commission for Refugees, Migrants and Internally Displaced Persons (NCFRMI) and Project Victory Call Initiative (PVC) in Abuja on Thursday. She noted that though President Mohammadu Buhari had made every necessary arrangements for Nigerians caught up in the war situation to return home, some chose to remain in some countries like Poland ,stressing that the most appropriate action for Poland to take was to return them back to their countries, rather than keep them in tortuous detention centres. The NiDCOM boss said that the two day clinic was the preliminary , as it will be a continuous exercise.in the six geo-political zones, disclosing that NiDCOM has also partnered with The Sunshine Series by creating a 24 hours helpline (#112) for returnees who need counseling. Also speaking, the Federal-Comissioner, Refugees Commi-ssion, Mrs. Imaan Sulaiman-Ibrahim, said: “We tend to ignore our mental health but mental health is key. As Nigerians we have a lot of resilience we have that ability, but not everybody has the same threshold when it comes to resilience and hence the need for this particular platform so that those that need extra support or extra care and assistance, can be able to access it”. Sulaiman-Ibrahim stated that the NCFRMI is the focal organ for government for rehabilitation, resettlement and integration. So psychosocial support is the core of rehabilitation. She also explained that NCFRMI has offices in about 14 locations. And are ready to make their offices available to ensure that collaboration with the Project Victory Call Initiative (PVC) team and academic experts make this counseling easily accessible for the returnees. The Convener Project Victory Call Initiative (PVC), Dr. Bolaji Akinyemi commended the Chairman/CEO NiDCOM and the National Commissioner for NCFRMI and the entire team for the initiative behind the programme and applauded both organisations for their immediate response. Akinyemi stressed the importance for the prompt creation of this programme, stating that trauma has caused mental and socio psychological issues. He further notified the returnees that the services provided by the PVC Initiative will be free and accessible to any and every returnee with no cost to the government. Meanwhile, the President of Nigeria Students in Ukraine, Mr Fehintola Moses, applauded President Mohammadu Buhari, the Minister of foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama and Hon. Abike Dabiri-Erewa and the Nigerian in Diaspora Commission (NiDCOM) team, the Nigerian Ambassador to Ukraine, Amb Shina Feege , Nigerian diaspora organisations,  NGOs and all other government agencies  for the prompt response and rescue of the students from Ukraine. He narrated how brutal the situation was and the terrifying experiences most of them faced during the war between Russia and Ukraine. From spending nights in an inadequate bunker to being racially profiled in some instances.