 The death of the longest-serving Oyo monarch, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi III, has created a vacuum in leadership on the home front, in the Oyo Empire and the nation at large, writes Yinka Olatunbosun When the news of the death of Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi III at 83 years broke out in the early hours of yesterday, many of his allies were in denial at first. A few hours after the news of his death was debunked as a rumour, the Palace of Alaafin of Oyo through the Alaafin’s Media and Publicity Director, Mr. Bode Durojaiye confirmed the death of the longest-reigning Yoruba monarch having reigned as king for 52 years. Oba Adeyemi III breathed his last at Afe Babalola University Teaching Hospital Ado-Ekiti in Ekiti State and had been buried yesterday according to Islamic rites after consultations with the body of kingmakers. Upon the demise of the Alaafin, the Basorun of Oyo, who is the head of the kingmakers in the town, known as Oyomesi, Chief Yusuf Akinade Ayoola, is expected to take over the traditional rulership of the town, till a substantive Alaafin would be appointed. Early Life and Pedigree The late monarch was born on October 15, 1938, into the Alowolodu Royal House, and as a member of the House of Oranmiyan to Raji Adeniran Adeyemi. His father became Alaafin in 1945 and was deposed and exiled in 1954, 10 years after, for reportedly sympathising with the National Council of Nigerian Citizens (NCNC). Adeyemi III’s great-grandfather was Oba Atiba Atobatele, who founded New Oyo while his great-great-grandfather was Alaafin Abiodun, a direct descendant of Oranmiyan, the founder of the Oyo Empire. His paternal grandfather, according to historians, was Alaafin Adeyemi I Alowolodu, who ruled during the infamous Kiriji War, and was the last independent ruler of the Oyo Empire before British colonialism. Before ascending the throne of his forefathers, Alaafin was working as an insurance clerk and also loved boxing but had to retire before his coronation on November 18, 1970, as the successor to Alaafin Gbadegesin Ladigbolu II in 1970 — just at the end of the Nigerian Civil War — during the governorship of Colonel Robert Adeyinka Adebayo. Ascension to the Throne Expectedly, his coronation was preceded by a series of contention for the coveted seat of the Oyo monarchy. In step with the custom of selecting the new Alaafin, after the death of Alaafin Bello Gbadegesin, the Oyomesi contacted Oranlola (Baba Iwo) of Alowolodu to become the Alaafin. He then called for a meeting within the Alowolodu royal family. He informed them of his meeting with Oyomesi and that he suggested his son, Sanda ‘Ladepo. All the members of the family agreed to this except Baba Salami Dudu. Dudu suggested the deceased. Reportedly, the contention for the throne of the Alaafin became so intense that some of the princes from the larger royal families in Oyo became contenders. Among these were Aremo Sanni Gbadegesin, Prince Olanite Ajagba, Prince Afonja Ilaka, the late  Adeyemi, and Prince  ‘Ladepo. After all the intrigues, Oba Adeyemi III emerged as the Alaafin of Oyo and was crowned on January 14, 1971. Recognised as one of Africa’s most powerful and most influential kings, Oba Adeyemi III was inducted into deep cultural ethos including the Ifa and the Sango mysteries. He was deemed as the direct representative of these deities on earth and empowered by the rich knowledge of the oral tradition such as chants, proverbs and more. It was during the various purification and cleansing processes at the hallowed grounds of the Yoruba ancient shrine that Oba Adeyemi III made a covenant with the illustrious Yoruba ancestors that he would defend, protect and add glamour to the Yoruba norms and be an embodiment of Yoruba culture. Monarchy and Privileges Ten years after his coronation, in 1980, Oba Adeyemi III was appointed as the chancellor of Uthman dan Fodio University in Sokoto, a position he held till 1992. Two years later, President Ibrahim Babangida appointed him Amir-ul-Hajj in recognition of his commitment to the consolidation of Islam in Nigeria. Traditionally, Alaafin was the permanent Chairman of the Council of Obas and Chiefs in Oyo until May 3, 2011, when former Governor Adebayo Alao-Akala (now late) announced that the state government had passed a law that introduced rotation of the Office of Chairman between the Alaafin and two other kings in the state – the Olubadan of Ibadanland and the Soun of Ogbomoso. It was said that the measure, introduced by the state assembly with the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) majority, was in response to the Oba’s support for the Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN) during the April 2011 elections. The ACN beat the PDP decisively in that election. Contrary to the tumultuous history of the Oyo Kingdom, the Alaafin throughout his reign never had a major threat to the Oyo empire. He continued to work strictly in accordance with the oath he took in the presence of the Oyomesi, for his people. Death and the King’s Housewives Oba Adeyemi is known for his colourful lifestyle with women. At occasions, they turned up in style with the monarch wearing matching outfits. Alaafin had once told journalists that he never proposed to any of his wives but earned their love and loyalty after sponsoring their university education. Alaafin was married to Ayaba Abibat Adeyemi, his senior wife.  It was believed that he had married two of his wives Alhaja Olori Abibat Adeyemi (Iya Dodo) and Alhaja Olori Rahmat Adedayo Adeyemi (Iya Ilekoto) before his ascension to the throne of his forebears. Most reports held that he was married to 13 wives in total, with twelve junior wives who often attended public events with him. His junior wives are Ayaba Rahmat Adedayo Adeyemi, Ayaba Mujidat Adeyemi, Ayaba Rukayat Adeyemi, Ayaba Folashade Adeyemi, Ayaba Badirat Ajoke Adeyemi, Ayaba Memunat Omowunmi Adeyemi, Ayaba Omobolanle Adeyemi, Ayaba Moji Adeyemi, Ayaba Anuoluwapo Adeyemi, and Ayaba Damilola Adeyemi. The late monarch displayed yet again his love for ‘all creatures bright and beautiful’ when at 82 he took a new wife, Chioma Adeyemi. His marriage to young women had always been hot gossip for the tabloids and blog sites. It was believed that this new bride’s entry into the palace caused some anger in the palace perhaps because of the manner in which they were confronted with the discovery. King Wasiu Ayinde Marshall was entertaining at the palace when he paid homage to Olori Chioma Adeyemi. Many wondered who that was. In time, they found out that Chioma was the King’s new love interest. Reportedly, she became the first eastern queen in the palace. In the previous year, Alaafin had married a 23-year old woman- Damilola and the wives were just adjusting to the newbie when Alaafin did it again, bringing in Chioma. The union didn’t last long as she was sent packing from the palace over the allegations of adultery. Quite naturally, Oba Adeyemi III’s demise has raised questions about the future of his household. The wives are expected to undergo a cleansing rite of freedom before they can move on to ‘future entanglements.’ Also, it is believed that the Alaafin has numerous children, but the exact number is unknown to the public. Reports say that he has fathered more than 20 children. Some of his notable children are the late Alhaja Kudirat Akofade Erediuwa, Barrister Babatunde Adeyemi, Princess Folasade Arewaomoba, Princess Taibat Adeyemi, Prince Nurudeen Adesegun Adeyemi, Prince Akeem Adeniyi Adeyemi (Skimeh), Prince Adebayo Fatai Adeyemi amongst others.