 femi Akintunde-Johnson Eventually, we have reached the last set of sundry perspectives and diverse reactions to our series of articles on perceptual excavation of notable, and not so notable, presidential aspirants for the 2023 elections. Here we go…: ON ATIKU ABUBAKAR – PUBLISHED MARCH 12: This is a damning review of Atiku’s persona that’s even unnecessary for he himself knows all of these codified accumulated verdicts at one time or the other that he ought to have deeply reflected upon realistically before making this voyage of his, especially at this material time… He deserves some sympathy in inverted commas…!!! – Dele Ogundele To me, Atiku Abubakar has been a half-hearted contestant all along. Always laid back and allowing others to swindle him about campaigning for him. He has very good credentials and pedigree to become Nigeria’s president. All those talks about skeletons in his cupboard and other personal shortcomings are not different from those that have led us in this country in one form or the other. Atiku has never run any strong campaign and his political minders have not been strategic and do not communicate well to the public. He cannot win an election in Nigeria with that kind of structure. – Denja Abdullahi ..That is what you get when a politician doesn’t have political ideology, but follows any ideology just for the sake of getting the political power they desire. Americans don’t just jump from one party to another… they stick with the ideology they believe in even for their whole life. This man Atiku may never even rule Nigeria…. – Chris Obi Moses His irritant arrogance and ill-perceived larger than life posture eventually sentenced him to political oblivion. Sadly, he has tragically missed his opportunity. Had he been 100% loyal to Obasanjo… nothing would have stopped him from taking his shot at presidency after OBJ… and that was the plan… but his inordinate ambition shot him down…Am afraid, he had long ago lost it. – Samuel Kunle-Oluwatobi Atiku can’t be president of NIGERIA. He has been an errand-boy for the military during their years in govt. They know his capacity of being very good at doing the dirty jobs for them. Therefore, the military generals won’t allow him to become NIGERIA’s president. Therefore, I think he should go and rest. Atiku can’t be a benevolent president. – Wale Otubusin Winning the presidential election is never a one time business. There are many examples to show that persistence and determination are the keys to winning. PDP wants to get power and the only candidate that is very close to winning for the PDP, as of now, is Atiku. And this confused write up is coming up this time because some people don’t sit down and analyse party politics and the opportunities for winning elections. Whatever fault lines Atiku has, let’s compare him with another candidate in terms of contact, resources, influence, national spread and ability to mobilise politically. When igbos were given the VP slot in 2019, they refused to go and vote, thereby producing nothing more than 1.5 million votes, from the whole of South East. And they want to be president! Who do they want to make an Igbo president with low political participation and low voter turnout? – Musa Musa ON YEMI OSINBAJO – MARCH 19: Thanks Femi for this great write up. I had the opportunity to meet and even have him study legal documents for a project with Lagos State Government. The problem is when you serve for two terms in a failed administration under a non-performing President and you are not able to interfere, (it) means you are not capable to run the affairs also. It’s time for an IGBO president. Nothing else is acceptable in 2023. There is a successful banker, administrator called Peter OBI! Why don’t we all rally around him? We don’t need a Tinubu or Osinbajo. They had their term. – Tee Mac Omatshola Iseli The vice President, Yemi Osinbajo, despite his impressive credentials, does not possess the requisite ‘Madness’ to run this country at this point in Time. Except by consensus, all political actors agree to let him run the country or the highest authority in the matter decrees it, please be assured he won’t be President of Nigeria. – Sighetu Edu’bane Edeke Thanks bro, for this very balanced analysis. The real challenge for comparatively “better” candidates, like the VP, will always be lack of “political structure” to drive their dream (that is if they have such a dream, in the first instance). I pray a day will arrive in our political firmament, where men and women of proven competence can aspire for and get high political office, on their own merit alone. I do believe that if God tarries, that day shall come in our lifetime. – Sola Adesokan I think it was the Vice President to President George W. Bush (the senior) that had a similar problem. When he contested for the Presidency. He was asked, ‘Where were you?’ during his principal’s tenure. Osinbajo will definitely have a Herculean task explaining how he can make a difference, especially under APC. If you ask me, those who belonged to ACN meant well for Nigeria. However, the CPC (especially) and the other parties that came to form the APC schemed the ACN elements out. – Matthew Simpa With all his education, it takes the ASIWAJU OF NIGERIA to rescue him from the jaw of academic redundancy after retirement, like Professor Akin Oyebode, the senior colleague of Osinbajo at the University Of Lagos. – Adegbamigbe Bamisebi ON PERCEPTIONS 2023 IN PERCENTAGES – MARCH 26: Jejune, arrant and nonsensical calculations. – Shuaib Shitho Well done FAJ. This is your ivory tower reality rating of the presumed contestants, but what of the unschooled masses that care less of the politician’s track records? Atiku and Tinubu will get more followers in percentage if the influence of stomach infrastructure are included in the ratings. – Gbenga Akeju Thanks FAJ for this great job …if only Nigerians would eschew tribalism and support who’d turn things around, lives will be better for all. One major clog against Obi is that his people want Biafra. And in line with that rating, will Oshibajo still continue as VP…just in case? In all, you did a very good & commendable job. If only Nigerians would read between the lines and do the needful, Nigeria go better. – Aluko Olú Isaacs With utmost respect for the effort and work put into this research, a TAX EVADER cannot in all conscience have the highest ratings. – Jumoke Abayomi I have followed this piece from the very start. Beautiful! Interestingly, none of all of them may feature in the real show in the next few weeks/months. Particularly in the APC. – Shofoyeke Adeniyi SA I can’t believe someone like Yaya Bello wants to rule Nigeria. – Abdullateef Balogun Ratings and analyses of personalities are almost faultless… Except, former Gov. Peter Obi should have been rated a bit higher, going by the obvious political atmosphere of Nigeria now! – Festus Oyeromi