* As Olanipekun promises better dealAlex Enumah in Abuja The Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) has called on the new leadership of the Body of Benchers to take drastic and urgent measures in curtailing the menace of indiscipline currently ravaging the legal profession.The charge by the NBA’s President, Olumide Akpata, was borne out of concern about the declining capacity of the Legal Practitioners Disciplinary Committee (LDPC) to effectively deal with cases of unethical conduct among lawyers. Akpata, urged the Body of Benchers to ensure an urgent reform of the LDPC to enable it function effectively so as to restore public confidence in the legal profession.He spoke at an event held to commemorate the change of leadership at the Body of Benchers in AbujaSenior Advocate of Nigeria, Chief Wole Olanipekun, had succeeded former Supreme Court judge, Justice Olabode Rhodes-Vivour as Chairman. Akpata, while appealing to the new chairman to look closely at the issue of discipline alongside the issue of the LPDC said:  “The public, right now have very little confidence in the LPDC and they believe that we are shielding many of our colleagues who have committed one infraction or the other.” He called for the establishment of more panels to enable LPDC sits across the country.“Right now, we have cases/petitions piled up, waiting to be heard. As the President of the Bar, I get calls every day from people who feel that they have been hard done by lawyers; who feel that some lawyers have misconducted themselves in cases involving them, and they think we are not doing enough in terms of disciplining erring lawyers.“It is a one-year term, as the Chairman of the Body of Benchers. It is not a very long tenure. But, as the Chairman, I know if he puts his mind to it, I am sure he (Olanipekun) can totally revamp the LPDC to ensure that our citizens regain confidence in the legal profession, not only that we are competent and can service the public, but that we can discipline our own.” Speaking earlier, Olanipekun, who became the body’s 50th Chairman, said he is humbled by his new assignment and assured of his commitment to lift the body and the profession by building on the enviable foundation laid by his predecessors in office. “I am humbled, honoured and ecstatic at the matchless and remarkable opportunity afforded me to lead and pilot the affairs of the Body of Benchers for the next one year, having been elected as the Vice-Chairman on 25th March, 2021,” he said. “In whatever position I found myself, I have always striven to represent our noble profession as an ambassador and exemplar, displaying the learning, good character and virtues which the law profession is reputed for, to the admiration of the non-legal communities. “I pledge to continue to give my all to the services of the Body of Benchers as Chairman for the next year and, in doing so, I will be calling upon you all for your cooperation, understanding, assistance, advice and counsel. Nobody knows it all, and no man born of woman can boast of monopoly of wisdom. I am not insular,” he added.