 Victor Ogunje in Ado Ekiti Allies of Ekiti State Governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi and his immediate predecessor, Mr. Ayodele Fayose have been defecting from All Progressives Congress (APC) and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in drove to the Social Democratic Party (SDP), multiple sources have said. The allies, according to the sources, are defecting to the SDP in support of the governorship aspiration of the state’s former governor, Mr. Segun Oni who lost the contest to clinch the governorship ticket of the PDP in February. Among others, Fayose’s former  Chief of Staff, Chief Dipo Anisilowo; former Commissioner for Works, Mr. Kayode Oso and Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Mr. Owoseni Ajayi yesterday joined the drove of political leaders defecting to support Oni’s governorship aspiration. Likewise, Fayemi’s Senior Special Assistant on Electoral Matters, Olaiya Kupolati and his former Senior Special Assistant on Internal Security, Deji Adesokan last week decamped to the SDP ahead of the June 18 governorship election. Meanwhile, sources told THISDAY that some APC chieftains and members “are still masquerading as party loyalists, with their hands on the plough in the SDP to help Oni win the poll as a third force that is alien to the politics of Ekiti. Speaking with THISDAY in Ado Ekiti yesterday, the Publicity Secretary of a pro-Oni campaign organisation,  Ekiti Build Back Better, Mr. Idowu Adelusi,  said the gale of defections  further amplified the Oni’s acceptability in Ekiti. Adelusi revealed that many of those parading themselves as backers of APC and PDP governorship candidates; Biodun Oyebanji and Bisi Kolawole respectively “are rooting for Oni and that this would reflect in the outcome of the poll.” He said the defection of allies of Fayemi and Fayose was not borne out of desperation for positions and relevance, but for the fact that the entire Ekiti people “are already disillusioned with deception and massive looting of Ekiti by these wicked politicians.” The publicity secretary said: “APC and PDP are  gradually being emptied on a daily basis with the way their bigwigs are coalescing with Segun Oni’s SDP in droves. Oni is now like a magnetic force attracting every  politician in Ekiti. “As of now, notable PDP politicians like former Speaker of the Ekiti State House of Assembly, Pastor Kola Oluwawole; a former Assembly member, Olayode Omotoso; Chief Bola Olu-Ojo, former State Chairman; Chief Idowu Faleye, former State Chairman; Chief Segun Akinwumi, former State Commissioner; Mr Jackson Adebayo, former State Publicity Secretary of PDP and Mrs Abiola Olukayode-Ajayi, former chairman, Ikole Local Government. “Others include former Nigeria’s Ambassador to Canada, Dare Bejide; Mr Dapo Lagunju, former State ALGON Chairman;  Princess Titi Owolabi, former Assembly member, the list also include former local government chairmen, former PDP local government chairmen, secretaries, the executive members, and as well majority of former National Assembly and Ekiti State House of Assembly members in both PDP and APC.” However, Fayemi’s SSA on Electoral Matters, Hon. Olaiya Kupolati, said he decided to pitch his tent with Oni owing to the unwavering confidence he has in his ability to turn around the fortunes of the State if accorded the opportunity to serve. Kupolati, in a letter dated March 23 and addressed to the office of the  Secretary to the State Government,  resigned from Fayemi’s government . Kupolati, however, claimed that  his resignation was  in tandem  with the new Electoral Act, which stipulated that every appointee seeking political office should resign accordingly, saying he intends to contest for the House of Assembly on the platform of SDP. The letter reads: “I, Kupolati Olaiya, the Senior Special Assistant on Electoral Matters, hereby resign my position with effect from 30th March, 2022. I really appreciate Mr Governor for giving me the opportunity to serve the good people of Ekiti State”. Shedding light on his resignation and subsequent defection to SDP at his ward in Iye Ekiti , Ilejemeje Local Government area of Ekiti State, Kupolati predicated this on his preference for Oni , he described as having a better experience and pedigree to govern Ekiti. Kupolati said: “ I perceive former governor Segun Oni as the best man for Ekiti after Governor Fayemi  at this trying time and I am ready to support him. “The former governor is a man of the people. A man of integrity, with unblemished records. He has a better pedigree. He performed very well while in office in his first term, so he deserves a reelection by every standard. “I am also following the trend in town, especially my people in Ilejemeje, they are totally for Segun Oni and as a good leader and community person, I don’t want to work against the wishes of my constituents.”