 Onyebuchi Ezigbo in Abuja Ndieze Igbo in Diaspora and Igbo Delegate Assembly (IDA) comprising Igbos living in Northern Nigeria have unanimously resolved to support the Minister of Labour and Employment, Senator Chris Ngige for the 2023 presidential race. The groups told the labour minister “to stop consultations and join the race for the country’s topmost political office. If Nigerians decide to seek for an Igboman to lead the country, he should be the one.” The President-General of IDA, Chief Chi Nwogu, announced the resolution, saying Ngige by his antecedents had proved his mettle in leadership. In a statement by Ngige Media Office, Nwogu was quoted as saying that Igbos were tired of playing a second fiddle in Nigerian politics and wished to produce the successor to President Muhammadu Buhari. He said: “We want to produce the President of Nigeria in 2023. We do not want a Vice President. Please Ngige, you have done enough consultations. Don’t consult again. Join the presidential race. We know your antecedents the periods you served as governor of Anambra State and Senator of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “You have been in the labour room in the past seven years as the Minister of Labour and Employment, attending to all the labour disputes brought to your table. Please, join the presidential race. We will support you. We will follow you to Aso Rock.” Likewise, the Eze-Ndigbo Bauchi, Igwe Jude Umezika described Ngige as a unifier and bridge-builder who would unify Nigeria and safeguard the lives and property of the Igbos and other Nigerians wherever they live in the country. “The roads he built in Anambra 16 years ago are still intact. There is no Igbo man who is his match. He is one of the Igbo leaders that will call us whenever there is a problem in the North. He has the fear of God.” Also speaking, Ezeudo of Abuja, Dr Uche Egenti, described Ngige as a bold, courageous and brave man, expressing confidence that if given the opportunity to serve as President, he would replicate his excellent performance in Anambra State in Nigeria. Earlier while consulting the group on his presidential ambition, Ngige reaffirmed his belief in one united, fair, equitable and just Nigeria, saying Igbos have properties scattered across the country. He said the president of Nigeria “should be for the most competent person irrespective of where he or she comes from. The president is for all but certain areas in the constitution, particularly Section 14 (3) said that the government of Nigeria must be dominated by persons from different groups and no one group should dominate in order to command national loyalty and patriotism. “Therefore, we believe in unity and diversity. We believe in justice, equity and fair play, to the extent that today, our party, APC, has said that the next president should come from the people of Southern stock of Nigeria.” “The Igbos of the South-East are part of Southern Nigeria. Some of us have taken the pains to serve our country for the past 40 years in the public service of Nigeria. I started my journey as medical officer 1 at the National Assembly clinic in Lagos. “From there, I went into the Federal Ministry of Health and rose to become consultant and later, Deputy Director in charge of Hospital Services. I left the civil service without blemish and became a party official in the PDP. “Working with former Vice President, Dr Alex Ekwueme, we conceded the presidency to the South-West in 1999 and General Olusegun Obasanjo became President. I was among those who made it possible for the unity of the country. “The party conscripted me to become Anambra State Governor. President Olusegun Obasanjo stayed from 1999 to 2007 and afterwards, the presidency moved to the North and Yar’Adua who was my mate as governor became president. “Those who are from Anambra here know what I did in the State as Governor in just 34 months. I did not do it for Anambra alone, but for the entire South-East.”