 Okon Bassey in Uyo A prominent governorship aspirant on the platform of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Akwa Ibom State, Obong Ide Owodiong Idemeko, has tasked delegates in the forthcoming party’s primaries to consider the interest of the state above other considerations in the choice of the governorship standard-bearer of the party for the 2023 general election. Idemeko at a consultation meeting with the 31 chapter chairmen of PDP at the state secretariat in Uyo stressed that the future of the state rests on the choice of the next governor of the state. The governorship hopeful told the chairmen that their decision as delegates will not only shape the future of the state but the destiny of their children. According to Idemeko, “Your votes at the May 21 PDP primaries will determine the future of this state and that of our children, so you must vote a leader with capacity and wealth of experience to move the state forward. “The future resides in your hands as delegates; my vision for our great state covers 19 areas as encapsulated in my governorship blue print, ranging from massive infrastructural development, human capacity development, massive agriculture and food sufficiency, education, healthcare, security, sports development among others. Idemeko emphasised that there would be total revamping of the education sector with massive upgrading of the existing infrastructures, improving of curriculum and enhancement of teachers capacities to add more value to students. He highlighted that the healthcare system would not only be upgraded but made functional with provision of primary healthcare system in every ward in the state. “There will be a strong focus in healthcare system, and we will use the wards to deliver it. There must be accessible primary healthcare facilities within every five minute drive in our state,” the governorship hopeful said. He added: “I have had a broad experience starting from being a lecturer in a university to sitting in various leadership positions in ExxonMobil. I have been a student leader and renowned sport administrator with Mobil Pegasus Club. “I will ensure your relevance continue beyond my election by seeking your opinion and contributions to govern our dear state.” Idemeko said he is deeply committed to the sustenance “of our hard-earned democracy,” and urged Akwa Ibomites known for their republican disposition to close ranks and ensure that through democracy, a new crop of capable leaders will emerge in 2023 to lift the state higher. Speaking on behalf of the 31 chapter chairmen, the Chairman of Chairmen, Hon Eddy Etang Nkanga, described Ide Owodiong as a committed party man and renowned philanthropist who has touched humanity through his individual efforts.