 Hacey Health Initiative (HHI) has declared its readiness to collaborate with the Osun State Government in providing digital health solutions that would support the state in managing health data in 332 primary health facilities across the state.Speaking with journalists shortly after stakeholders meeting with directors in the State Ministry of Health and government representatives at the weekend, the Executive Director of HHI, Ms. Rhoda Robinson, said that digital health programme would improve the working conditions of health care providers in the state.Robinson noted that digitisation of health services in the state would assist the system in analysing and reviewing data in real-time to make adequate quick decisions for the people of the state.She said that they have started the programme in five local government areas of the state to test run the technology with the residents and health system in Osun.She said: “We’re working in just five local governments now. We want to move from five local governments or move to the other local government as well because that is our vision to ensure that more women and more children have access to better health care.“It is harder to learn from this kind of thing or fix the problems faster. But right now, what we are doing in the five local governments is we are learning with the technology we are learning with the people we are learning with the system or the state’s health sy“We need to scale to the other facility by the time we need to scale to the other facilities. We will have a system that works for every single facility that can anticipate changes that are anticipated issues that may come up and respond adequately.”In the same vein, the Chief Executive Officer of IRPO Solutions, Dr. Keith Hanna, expressed his excitement to bring digital interventions to Osun State, saying that the plan is to reduce maternal mortality in the state.He also stressed that they will cut across different verticals such as malaria net immunisation that would be of benefit to all residents of the state.Hanna said: “This is the first time really out of the lockdown that we’ve been able to travel. So we’re very, very excited to be here today and we visited a healthcare center this morning. So that’s very important for us to see what’s going on there.In his remarks the Special Adviser to Osun State Governor on Public Health, Dr. Siji Olamiju, said that the administration of Governor Gboyega Oyetola is open to any organization, individual and corporate who wanted to extend hands of fellowship to engender quality health for the citizen of the state.Olamiju commended the HHI for deeming it fit to choose Osun State as one of the beneficiaries, and assured them of adequate support to achieve the noble objective.He said: “The opportunity brought by the HHI is a welcome idea. It is an initiative that will strengthen our data capturing and data management system in the state, which is centering on maternal-child health, antenatal and maternal cases in the state.”