 Apart from the usual frenzy about him, Obi Iyiegbu, famously known as Obi Cubana, loves to live a very low-key life devoid of unnecessary media attention. Before he hugged the limelight, after the burial of his mother over a year ago, the consummate businessman and head honcho of Cubana Groups loved his privacy. With massive investments in several pies of business tied around entertainment, Iyiegbu, who until recently loved to engage in philanthropic works by proxy, is gradually getting used to the buzz created around him and also adjusting pretty well. Weeks ago when the Political Science graduate from the University of Nigeria Nsukka celebrated his 48th birthday, the whole social media was literally on fire. His congratulatory pictures were all over the place, just as his phone buzzed with copious messages, in addition to several newspaper advertorials. A lavish soiree was hosted in his honour as top politicians, celebrities, friends and well-wishers gathered to celebrate him, amidst fanfare. The man enjoyed so many accolades on his birthday because he has invested so much in people. Late last year, he constructed the strategic Afor Oba old Road linking the Oba community to the new road in Anambra State without making any noise about it. As if that was not enough, he also offered a scholarship to a viral traffic hawker, Ekuma Jeremiah, who gave out money to inmates in a black maria. He took up the reinstatement of his studentship with a full scholarship at the Ebonyi State University and also offered him a job in his firm when he graduates. To crown it all, at his secondary school reunion event, Obi also promised to give N2 million each to 20 of his struggling classmates as a startup fund for investment in petty business for financial sustainability. Since the beginning of Ramadan, he has been giving his Muslim staff members free meals to break their fast. A source revealed that Obi is currently planning a massive donation to Islam faithful in Abuja through his wife’s Kiek Foundation, where food items, cash and other valuables will be donated to the needy.