 Dike Onwuamaeze The MTN Nigeria and Pan-Atlantic University (PAU), Lagos State, yesterday announced the launch of the MTN Media Innovation Programme (MTN-MIP), which would be run by PAU’s School of Media and Communication (SMC). The programme, which was announced  by the Chief Executive Officer of MTN Nigeria, Mr. Karl Toriola, is six-month, fully funded fellowship for Nigerian media practitioners that is designed to support the sustainable development of the nation’s changing media scene. It is also open to media practitioners across the spectrum, including print, electronic, online platforms and social media content creators. The course is designed to give participants a greater understanding of Nigeria’s technology sector and the nexus between media and technology. It would also leave participants better able to adapt to changing realities. Fellows would also have access to professional resources and mentorship from the SMC faculty. Toriola said: “We are driven by our belief that everyone deserves the benefits of a modern connected world and are driving accelerated growth by leading digital solutions for Nigeria’s progress. Against this backdrop, the media landscape continues changing at remarkable speeds, boosted by new technologies. Thus, it is only fitting that we support developments in the Nigerian media space with our infrastructure and enable capacity building initiatives to enable innovation in media practice. “It’s a delight to partner with Pan-Atlantic University, who, through their expertise, have contributed to the professional development of the media industry, not only in Nigeria but across Africa,” The Vice Chancellor, Pan-Atlantic University, Professor Enase Okonedo, said during the launch that “the SMC was established to train professionals who will uphold the highest intellectual, ethical and professional values that promote creativity, critical knowledge, social responsibility and the spirit of enterprise. The MTN Media Innovation Programme could not have come at a better time for Nigerian media practitioners to imbibe these pertinent values,” The course, fully sponsored by MTN Nigeria, will be available to 20 successful applicants.