 Olawale Ajimotokan in Abuja Sixteen schools in the FCT will participate in the first Abuja Inter-Secondary Schools Athletics Championship (AISSAC) at the Moshood Abiola National Stadium, Abuja on May 28, 2022. To be eligible, the students must not be older than 16 years for the championship to be organised according to the World Athletics standard. The Managing Partner of K.I.O. Consult, Kesiena Oghoghorie, who is organising the meet, said the one-day championship will have on its schedule events including 100m, 200m, 400m, 4 x 100m Relay, 4 x 400m Relay, 4 x 400m (Mixed Relay), Long Jump and Shot-put. Oghoghorie, a sports lawyer, said he got the motivation to embark on the project out of recognition that school athletics competition has declined in Nigeria in recent times and has adversely affected the country’s performance at the global level. “I was also worried about the alarming rate of social vices which has become prevalent among the youths. AISSAC would, therefore, bring back the school athletics buzz in Nigeria as well as keep the youths engaged with a view to deterring them from engaging in social vices,” he said. He noted that sports engagement will assist youths to develop their personal and interpersonal skills and talents; prepare them for the challenges of life and understand that hard work comes with results. AISSAC is designed to in the next 10 years transmute to a national championship for Nigerian athletes, along the line of the Jamaica Inter–Secondary Schools Boys and Girls Championship that produced the likes of Usain Bolt, Yohan Blake among others. Oghoghorie was a former sports prefect at St Gregory’s College, Ikoyi, Lagos, who later became the athletics captain of University of Kent, UK. He represented the university at various national athletics championships prompting the Kent County Athletics Association to draft him to represent the county at the England Inter-County Athletics Championships, where he ran close to his personal best over the 100m sprint. He noted that with innovation such as AISSAC, athletics can be made attractive to students in Nigeria where football is the dominant sport as it will bring together students to compete and ignite the love for the sport among them.