 In what looks like a positioning effort to domesticate itel brands to appeal more to the African markets, itel has announced the itel Home, a concept that showcases its new and improved product portfolio of smartphones, televisions, mobile accessories and electrical home appliances to consumers across the country. The brand continues to prioritize giving its customers control, functionality, fun, and value with its product categories. The goal, for them, is for every member of a family unit to have an itel product right at their side, making life easier and more enjoyable for them.According to the promoters of the brand, the development is an extension of itel’s mission to help Nigerians and Africans at large enjoy better life at a subsidized cost.“Home or office, it doesn’t really matter. Whether you’re warming up on a large couch with family and friends as you enjoy the current episodes of your favourite TV show or presenting a life-changing pitch in the boardroom, the itel TVs range are as good as they come. itel TVs are available in A Series, D Series, S Series and G Series, and these categories all offer the best in home entertainment while being affordable too,” the company said.It was further stated that itel also offers a range of home appliances like the itel Blender, the itel Electric Kettle, and even the itel Electric Cooker. Simply, your home gets better, easier and more comfortable with itel Family products. Also included in the new brand portfolio being introduced to dominate the Nigerian home are sockets, especially pocket-friendly, safe, durable and highly sought after products.The itel extension boxes was said to have come in a variety of prices of sizes and are a tested and trusted appliance that you can conveniently use in your home, office or school.Processor? Check. Memory? Check. Powerful, fast-charging battery? Check. The new itel ABLE 1 and Spirit 1 laptops from itel offer patrons everything they need in a personal computer and so much more.With 1 TB in-built memory, 8GB RAM and Windows 11 operating system, there’s a lot to love about the itel laptop beyond their elegant 15.6-inch FHD screen and thin, light design. It is also equipped with WIFI 5, allowing routers to engage with up to four devices at a time.However, if there is any pay off that would resonate with consumers, it is the assurance that itel’s accessories are for next generation. In this category are the wireless N53F neckband, the Smart Watch 1, fit band, the earbuds T1, the TWS earbuds, the bluetooth speaker, bluetooth headphones, the earphone E25 and so many more. These accessories give you the quality you deserve.This list of new products embodies the passion and character of itel as it continues to sweep through Africa and the rest of the world with affordable but highly innovative products for the young at heart. Whether it’s the smile-capturing and big battery itel smartphones, to the cinematic delight of the itel TVs, the unrivalled functionality of the itel Smart Watch 1, the super slim Spirit 1 and ABLE 1 laptop, or the dynamism of the itel audio accessories range, you too can join the itel family and enjoy better life.Meanwhile, to further deepening its network and market penetration, itel stores and authorised outlets have their shelves filled with these exciting new products as the brand continues to seek easier ways to make life better for all.