 David-Chyddy Eleke in Awka Anambra State Governor, Prof Chukwuma Soludo, has set up a committee to unravel the true cause of armed struggle in the South-east region, which has led to insecurity in the area. The committee termed: ‘Truth, Justice and Peace Committee’, is to be headed by Prof Chidi Odinkalu, with Bianca Ojukwu as secretary. Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Prof. Solo Osita Chukwulobelu, who signed a statement disclosing the information, reeled out terms of reference to the committee. According to him, “The purpose of the Committee on Truth, Justice, and Peace is to seek a restorative justice approach for truth-telling or real facts, for the healing of the victims of the violence. “Accounting for responsibility and accountability of the actors, conditional mercy for the repentant perpetrators, restitution for certain losses and rehabilitation of the perpetrators, for the overall aim of restoration of peace and justice as well as the promotion of development in the state, the region and Nigeria would be the focus of the committee. “Terms of reference for the committee are to identify the remote and immediate causes of the agitations, restiveness, violence, and armed struggle in the South-east region since 1999. “Document victims/circumstances of death, brutality and incarceration; identify stakeholders and groups who have played critical roles in the agitations and conflicts, their roles, capabilities and demands. “Address any other issue(s) that may be germane to unravelling the extent of the crisis and charting the roadmap for the future and make recommendations for sustainable peace and security in Anambra State and Southeast.” Chukwulobelu said the committee shall have a direct reporting line to the governor, and will be provided with administrative support to perform their duties, and shall conclude its work not later than six months from its inauguration. Meanwhile, other members of the committee include Dr. Joe Nwaorgu, Dr. Udenta Udenta, Dr. Uju Agomoh,  Rev. Fr (Msgnr) Jerome Madueke, and Canon Dr. Okechukwu C. Obi-Okoye. Others are Mr. Charles Oputa (Charly Boy), Dr. John Otu, Mr. Ngozi Odumuko, Ms Onyeka Onwenu, Dr. Joe Abah, Mr. Chukwuma Okpalaezeukwu, Mr. Sam Egwuatu and Prof. Joseph Ikechebelu.