 …Annual event attracting 100,000 participants will focus on inspiring creativity in education …Registration now open for individuals and teams from across the globe; monthlong competition begins on world creativity day, april 21, Ugo Aliogo The BIC Corporate Foundation announces its title sponsorship of the sixth edition of Ideas World Cup, the largest brainstorming event in the world where individuals and teams from cities around the globe compete to solve a social issue using the power of creative thinking. A statement by the foundation said this year’s theme, How Can We Inspire Creativity In Education, was selected by the BIC Corporate Foundation for its universal need, potential for global impact, and direct reflection of the Foundation’s core belief that creativity in education is a cornerstone of personal progress and societal change. The statement hinted that Ideas World Cup is a month-long not-for-profit competition founded in 2014 by Juan Prego, a pioneer in teaching organizations and teams from all sectors to unlock the power of creative thinking and rewire their cultures to be more inventive. It also noted that each year, Ideas World Cup rewards projects that have the potential to be implemented locally, nationally, or globally with prizes to help bring their idea to life. The statement revealed that for this year, the winner would also have access to mentors from the BIC Corporate Foundation’s Corporate Community of Practice, a global coalition of educators, researchers, foundations, artists, and NGOs to help maximize their idea’s impact. “Ideas World Cup is a true celebration of human creativity,” said Mr. Prego. “We connect people from all over the world and tap into their inner creative power, proving that if we join heads, hearts, and hands, we can solve some of the most difficult global problems we face. Everyone can be creative, and through that creativity we can forge a brighter future.” The Executive Director, BIC Corporate Foundation, Alison James, said: “This year’s theme asks participants to ideate how creativity can evolve from an abstract concept into an applied foundational element of the learning process; an essential life skill that can be taught, cultivated, and championed across all subjects throughout the global educational system, and become a transformational tool that can be used to solve the most challenging problems society faces. We believe that creativity is the key to unlocking a better future. Our aim with this year’s theme is to celebrate the development of the creative mind and inspire a movement around creativity in education for people of all ages and backgrounds. Continuing, the statement said: “Five sub-themes posing 30 additional questions have also been created to tackle ancillary issues and inspire entrants to expand their thinking, including: ·        Building Creative Cultures: how might we develop a change-oriented culture of learning that embraces creativity at the heart of the learning process? ·        Environmental Protection: how can we harness the power of creativity to tackle the biggest challenges outlined in the UN’s 17 sustainable development goals? ·        The Future of Learning: how might we revolutionize teacher training and development to drive more creativity in the classroom? ·        Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion: how can we use creativity to address systemic challenges of bias in our education system? ·        Building a Network: how might we create a network of creativity catalysts in our schools and higher education institutions to amplify and promote our work? “Ideas World Cup Timeline ·        April 21 – May 9: organized events begin, and participants submit their ideas ·        May 10 – May 13: the Ideas World Cup jury will review and shortlist the best ideas ·        May 13 – May 20: specific questions will be proposed directly by the jury to idea creators to refine and improve an idea’s potential ·        May 20 – May 26: the finalists will be selected, and an online voting phase will open ·        May 27: the winning project will be announced, and the city with the most ideas entered will be awarded the title of “most creative city” “Registration is now open at www.ideadworldcup.com for any person or group who wishes to enter, with the competition officially starting on World Creativity Day, April 21, 2022. The winning projects will be announced during the closing ceremony on May 27, 2022. For further explanation of the event timeline and an overview of supporting webinars provided by Ideas World Cup, please visit www.ideasworldcup.com/events. “Since its inception, Ideas World Cup has attracted over 100,000 participants from 72 cities in 15 countries and generated over 34,000 ideas. In 2021, the main theme asked how society could mitigate the social and economic impact caused by the COVID-19 crisis.”