 Adedayo Akinwale in Abuja The National Women Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Beta Edu, has said that President Muhammadu Buhari, the National Chairman of the party, Senator Abdulahi Adamu, and other party leaders will meet to decide the presidential candidate of the party. Edu disclosed this Tuesday at the national secretariat of the party in Abuja during a solidarity visit by the Women Wing of Yahaya Bello Presidential Campaign Team. She said all the presidential aspirants coming out from the ruling APC are all good and above average. Edu noted that the women wing of the party would negotiate with all the presidential aspirants to obtain their commitment and what the women stand to gain if given the opportunity to lead Nigeria. Her words: “The aspirants that are coming out for the presidential tickets in APC are not in any way below average. They are high above and are far above board. I have not seen one that is not good. “Now as a party, our party will come together under the leadership of President Muhammadu Buhari and of course the national chairman and other leadership structures of our party to decide on who will be the candidate of our dear party. “Before that decision is made, there is something we must do immediately. If indeed you are supporting a candidate in APC, you are supporting Governor Yahaya Bello, you must go out now and begin the door-to-door mobilisation for registration. Go door to door and begin the campaign for voter registration.” Edu noted that the ruling party would not hand its ticket to a presidential candidate that is not friendly to women. According to her, “But one thing is certain, APC will not give its tickets to a presidential candidate who will not favour women. We know our president and all the glass ceilings he has broken. You know our party chairman and all the glass ceilings he has broken for women; giving us free forms.” Earlier, the Director, Women Mobilisation, Hope 23, Yahaya Bello Campaign Organisation, Ms. Zara  Onyinye, said a candidate who supports women would definitely stand the chance of winning this election because women form the highest number of voters and across Nigeria Onyinye said: “That person who has shown that he has the women in his heart, he has love for women, he creates enabling environment for women, he gave them that opportunity to sell and that person is Yahaya Bello and all the women have shown that he has indicated interest as the person who supported them, that same person they’re going to support and so that stands him out of all the aspirants going for this election.” On her part, the Secretary to the Kogi State Government, Folashade Ayoade, said Bello loves women and cares for them in his government. She added: “I need to just let you know of the fact that Yahaya Bello loves women, he  gives us a place of honour. In Kogi State as we stand from 2016 to date, I have been the SSG, a woman. Not just that, the head of service has been a woman. We have a pioneer pension commission, in all the 21 local government areas, all the vice-chairmen are women.”