 Amby Uneze in Owerri Member representing Nkwerre State Constituency in the Imo State House of Assembly, Hon. Obinna Okwara, has accused the Speaker, Hon. Kennedy Ibeh, of pronouncing his seat vacant in a manner that is contrary to the laws of the land. Okwara had recently defected from the All Progressive Congress (APC) to Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP). He said that the speaker committed contempt of the court since there were existing suits in courts of competent jurisdiction on the matter which Ibeh was a co- defendant. The legislator insisted that the speaker lacked constitutional power to declare his seat vacant, but rather risked jail term for preempting the court. He added that Ibeh does not have moral justification to take the decision since he had committed similar alleged offense having defected from Action Alliance, the party that sponsored his emergence in 2019 to PDP and APC currently. He also accused the speaker of leading the parliament astray, adding that “Imo State House of Assembly is now a ‘Fugi house of commotion.’ It is very unfortunate that Kennedy Ibeh in his desperation has destroyed the integrity of our parliament.” Okwara said; “The speaker risks a jail term for declaring my seat vacant. The matter he dabbled into is subjudice. There are five suits at the Federal High Court in Owerri challenging the defecting of 17 out of the 27 Imo lawmakers from PDP to APC. “We are lawmakers. We don’t interpret the laws. The courts do. He who goes to the equity must go with a clean hand. The speaker should first declare his own seat vacant for defecting to three political parties in four political outings in three years. “He was sponsored by Action Alliance for his reelection in 2019. Shortly after his inauguration, he joined PDP when Rt. Hon. Emeka Ihedioha was the governor. Immediately Hope Uzodinma came on board, he joined APC. “You don’t keep something on nothing and expect it to stand. Who is even the complainant in this matter? Did I write any letter to the house announcing my defection to the PDP? This is a parliament that suspended me for attending the burial ceremony of Mr. Uche Nwosu’s mother in December. “I will go to court for the interpretation of the Section 109, which he relied on to declare my seat vacant. He doesn’t have the right. He has shot himself in the foot and I am not moved by his shenanigans.” he added.