 Omon-Julius Onabu in Asaba The governorship aspiration of Olorogun David Edevbie, received a boost as the Anioma Congress, the supreme socio-cultural body of Delta North senatorial district, hosted the former three-time state Commissioner for Finance, on Thursday in Asaba. More than 40 traditional rulers from communities across the district as well as hundreds of eminent political, professional and businesses leaders in Anioma attended the event held at the Palace of the Asagba of Asaba, Obi (Prof.) Chike Edozien. Also present at the event was former deputy governor of the state, Chief Benjamin Elue. Edevbie said that he was pleasantly surprised at the rare display of warmth and affection by the royal fathers and top leadership of the Anioma nation of the state, for him and members of his entourage. The Asagba of Asaba, who presided at the consultative meeting, said that the reception was important as it afforded them the opportunity to hear directly from the governorship hopeful what is his development agenda for the state. According to the Asagba of Asaba, “Anioma is one people; we speak in one voice. The Anioma Congress is composed of the traditional rulers, the political, business and professional class. “We are here to guide our people and, when we speak, we believe we speak the mind of the people.” After outlining his vision and agenda for the development of the state, members of the congress commended Edevbie on his robust development programmes and expressed confidence in his capacity to deliver on the agenda if he became governor. They expressed the hope that they would meet with him again after the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) gubernatorial primary to work together for the progress of the state. Obi Edozien further said, “Various groups in Delta came from the same source and are distributed into various zones. For us, the most harmonious way to share power is by zoning.” The highlight of the event was the offering of prayers by the traditional rulers for Edevbie’s success in his political venture, with the Asagba leading the session and the Ezi of Ezionum, His Royal Majesty, Ambassador Roland Osanwuta, closing it.