 Mary Nnah The General Overseer of the Lord’s Chosen Charismatic Revival Ministries, Pastor Lazarus Muoka, has sent a strong warning to world leaders that there will be no solution in sight for economic and political problems if they don’t embrace God and stop legalising immoral acts. Speaking during an Easter retreat titled ‘God’s Covenant of Peace and Blessings’ at the Revival Ground of the International Headquarters of the church at Ijesha, Lagos, Muoka said, “This generation more than any other has provoked God beyond measure. In our very eyes all over the world, various kinds of abomination is being legalised, the world is calling on God to destroy them by their sin.” For world leaders, Muoka emphasised that their solutions to economic and political problems will not work if they don’t embrace God. “Men sleep with their daughters, prostitution is being legalised; abortion is being legalised, prostitution, gay marriage, killings, shedding of blood, they have provoked God to anger. Men can now marry men and women can marry women. This was the kind of sin that made God destroy Sodom and Gomorrah when they provoked the righteous God to anger.” He said that there is a cry in Africa, America, Europe, and Asia, with the ways governments manage the economy, while on the other hand evil is everywhere. According to him, there will be no solution when people commit evil, commit murder without provocation. “Men indulge in killing, kidnapping, cultism, terrorism, while governments of the world stand and watch, that, God is angry.” He stressed that God will judge the unrighteous noting that whether they are kings, presidents, priests, bishops, popes, or whoever refuses to repent from wickedness, the anger of the Lord awaits such a person. “They will never go unpunished,” he said, while calling on them to surrender to Jesus as the only remedy. “As a solution to the present world economic and political crises, governments all over the world must proscribe gay marriage, prostitution, abortion, and blood-letting because God is angry,” adding that if they repent, God will forgive them. He advised men and women to run away from the wrath of God by avoiding all defilements and keep seeking purity and perfection all their lives. “Do not entertain sin, don’t bear grudges, unbelief is a terrible sin, anger, impatience, covetousness, masturbation, adultery,” he noted, adding that, “the unrighteous will never inherit the kingdom of God. Sinners, fraudsters, those in secret cults, making charms, stealing, will face the wrath of God.”