By Hammed Shittu in Ilorin Duddenhill Foundation has announced the formation of a six-man Board of Directors to oversee its operations and set governing policies to achieve its vision of providing Nigerian and African undergraduates with skills and opportunities they need to flourish in corporate and entrepreneurial space.The Foundation, is a non-profit organisation investing in human capital by providing free online education, mentorship, and opportunities for young Nigerians and Africans worldwide through its Next Program. It has been commended by education stakeholders for its ongoing campus tour facilitating training and seminars on career and leadership for Nigerian undergraduates.A statement issued in Ilorin on Monday by its founder and board member of the foundation, Mr. Usman Abdul-Razaq, stated that the development would go a long way in reducing youths unemployment on the continent.According to the statement, the new board members are Maryam Augie-Abdulmumin; Mohammed Usman AbdulRazaq; Funlola Abe Folukoya; and Kabiru Rabiu, to be led by Interim Chairman Chiamaka Ezenwa with Kunle Elebute serving as a Honorary Adviser to the Board. Kunle Elebute, is a senior partner and Chairman of KPMG Africa with 39 years of experience advising clients in the private and public sectors in Nigeria, West Africa, and Sub-Saharan Africa.Chiamaka Ezenwa, Interim Chairman of the Board, is the Managing Director of Exotix Advisory, a premier financial advisory firm focused only on developing countries. She was the head of equity sales and vice president of equity capital market at FBN Capital before her present role.Mohammed Usman Abdul-Razaq, Founder and Board Member, is one of Africa’s celebrated young leaders in project finance, refinancing, public sector advising, mergers and acquisitions, and capital raising for private and public clients in Sub-Saharan Africa. He works as Vice President of Financial Advisory at Africa Finance Corporation.Funlola Abe Folukoya, Board Member, has worked in the oil and gas industry for 15 years, beginning her career on Morgan Stanley’s commodities trading desk. Within British Petroleum’s trade division, she currently leads the Sub-Saharan African Origination business. Funlola is committed to using technology to help Africa’s young and bright population develop.Kabiru Rabiu, a celebrated Nigerian entrepreneur, has over 15 years of management experience in the commodities sector, and currently is the Group Executive Director for BUA Group- one of Nigeria’s largest foods, mining, and infrastructure conglomerates. Kabiru is passionate about impacting Nigerian youths.Ms. Maryam Augie-Abdulmumin is Executive Director of Illmi Children’s Fund, Child and Gender Policy Advocate, and Businesswoman. She is passionate about pursuing models to bridge the funding gap for basic education for millions of out-of-school children in Nigeria.The statement  added that, the new appointments were expected to deepen the impact and reach of the vision of the foundation in the continent. The statement  therefore noted that, “Dudden Hill Next Program, with over 8 free online courses on its platform, will be accelerated in its bid to steer a new reality for undergraduates through the provision of entrepreneurial and office skills”.