 Benjamin Nworie in Abakaliki Former Secretary to the Ebonyi State Government (SSG), Professor Benard Odoh, has declared his intention to vie for the governorship of the state in 2023. Briefing journalists in Abakaliki, Professor Odoh said he would contest on the platform of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA). According to him, “The primary purpose of this media interaction is to publicly announce to the long suffering Ebonyi people that an alternative-a credible and competent alternative-to the current way of doing things will now be provided on the platform of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA). “In Ebonyi State, however, we have watched as events have unfolded, and political machinations are threatening to bring the state dangerously close to anarchy. “The political space cannot and must not be surrendered to political manipulators or to dangerous clashes of ambitions. As we witness the paralysis that has overcome the process of governance, Ebonyi people must be given hope for a better future and better prospects for themselves and their families.” The professor of Geophysics noted that he was in the governorship race because there was nothing like zoning arrangement in the constitution of his party. “You are all aware that I have done this before. I have learned a considerable amount of lessons from my 2019 experience as a gubernatorial aspirant under the banner of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Building from that experience, we are confident that our mobilisation of the youths of Ebonyi State who will in turn create a massive and unassailable movement of all citizens who are eager to see the return of power to those who will care for the essential ingredients of their existence and general welfare. “Under my stewardship as your governor, regular and full payment of pensions and gratuities; regular payment of predictable-figure salaries, leave allowances and other entitlements such as monetised regular promotions and training allowances will be restored to the civil servants without negotiations or intimidation. “The empty structures that harbour wild birds and reptiles that are spread across our local government areas in the name of rural general hospitals will be fully equipped and operational through a well-structured PPP programme. “Our women will be empowered. They will cease to be mere spectators in the polity, but equal participants in the course of governance and in every decision-making process intended to move the state forward. Water will run in Abakaliki within three months-for the first time since March 2015,” Odoh promised. He further noted that APGA would emerged victorious in the 2023 general election, adding that many political bigwigs in the state have indicated interest to defect to the party.