 Adibe Emenyonu in Benin City Some people under the aegis of ‘Team Alimikhena’, yesterday  declared that the aspiration of the former National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Adams Oshiomhole for Senate in 2023 general elections would polarise the party in Edo North senatorial district of the state. The group which stated this in a press statement, signed by its Convener and Secretary, Sunny Ifijen and Omeiza Ogumah respectively, feared that a repeat of what happened in the 2020 governorship election where party members worked at cross purpose may repeat itself in Edo North in 2023. They said this is particularly so because, while the people of the senatorial district accepts Oshiomhole’s leadership, they reject his aspiration for the senatorial seat. According to them, the rejection of Oshiomhole aspiration is so because the people want the incumbent, Senator Francis Alimikhena back in the senate as a form of compensation for his wonderful work in addition to keeping the party together in the district. The group advised the former APC national chairman to take the back stage and continue with his Kingmaker’s role rather than contest in the 2023 general elections. “Oshiomhole should not allow himself to be dragged into Edo North Senatorial race and be disgraced at the end of the day. To yield to the desire of some self-interest seeking individuals, may cost him the respect his supporters accord him. “Just like they convinced against the wish of the masses, to field the incumbent governor of the state, Godwin Obaseki in the 2016 who later turned out to be albatross to the party leadership and its supporters, they have started in their selfish ways. “They have opened their fangs again to destroy the peace that have existed in the party in Edo North by trying to convince Oshiomhole to dethrone a performing Senator in the person of Francis Alimikhena. “They are not just bent on convincing the former governor to run, but they trying in an unusual way to sow seed of discord in the harmonious relationship the two (Alimikhena and Oshiomhole) have shared over years. “To me, this unnecessary bickering and distrust that have brought out  its head because of this selfish persons can be put to rest if Oshiomhole decline to yield to their selfish demand. “Indeed, Oshiomhole’s leadership role in the party, especially in Edo North, has been largely responsible and that is why the party remains strong in the district and must not be allowed to be thrown away without stopping to see the reason the effect of this demand will cost the party,” the statement noted.