Society Watch  How does one begin to write about the 90th birthday party of Lady Adedoja Otedola, the mother of one of the richest men in Africa, Femi Otedola? Again, how does one describe the birthday party that has in attendance the movers and shakers of Nigeria under one roof? When the birthday party was announced a few weeks ago, many had anticipated that it would be the talk of the town for a very long time. The reason is that the Executive Chairman of Geregu Power Plant, Otedola, rarely organises a party; but whenever he does, it is always superlative and never-seen-before. The fairy-tale soirée, which was held last Sunday, April 3, 2022, in his home town Epe, Lagos State had in attendance dignitaries from all walks of life. The colourful event was another concrete proof that Otedola’s preeminence in the business world is not a fluke, given the array of guests who honoured his invitation. On that beautiful Sunday morning, the sleepy town of Odoragunshin in Epe Lagos came alive. The environs were serene, with a lot of people around to celebrate with the philanthropist par excellence. The two marquees accommodated over 2,000 guests at the reception venue in Odoragunshin. It was lavishly decorated by Funke Bucknor’s Sapphire Events, making many of the guests gawk at the splendour. It was obvious to all that the billionaire businessman has a commanding sense of hospitality, as the gaily dressed guests were treated to continental, Chinese and local delicacies as well as expensive wines, champagnes and cognac, among others. Ace Juju singer, King Sunny Ade, who entertained the guests with his mind-blowing performance proved once again that he is not ready for retirement yet. While it lasted, the former First Lady did not disappoint her guests, as she still made some good moves to the beats. So also her son Femi, who did justice to the beats. Others who also performed included her granddaughter, DJ Cuppy and Rotimi Otedola who performed with his band. Without exaggerating, it will take a very long time before we can witness anything near this party. It was simply sophisticated and captivating. The birthday party has set another standard that will be used to measure a good social event in the country for a long time to come. Some of the high-class personalities who witnessed the event include Nigeria’s Vice President, Prof.Yemi Osinbajo; former President of Nigeria, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo; Ex-Senate President, Bukola Saraki and his wife, Toyin; Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila;  Africa’s richest man, Aliko Dangote; Ooni of Ife, His Imperial Majesty Enitan Adeyeye Ogunwusi; Governor of Nigeria’s Central Bank, Godwin Emefiele; Group Chief Executive Oando Plc., Jubril Adewale Tinubu;  billionaire businesswoman, Hajia Bola Shagaya;  Ogun State governor, Dapo Abiodun;  Ex-Ogun governor, Aremo Segun Osoba and wife, Derin; Ex-governor of Ekiti State, Otunba Niyi Adebayo; former Ogun governor, Otunba Gbenga Daniel; Bashorun Dele Momodu. Others are former Lagos deputy governor, Femi Pedro;  Chairman, UBA, Mr. Tony Elumelu; Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu and wife; Oba Saheed Elegushi; Akeem Muri Okunola; Mo Abudu; Ambassador Ibrahim Gambari; Mr. Uwem White; Kemi Adeosun; Tunde Folawiyo; Tayo Amusan; Kunle Afolayan; Mr. Yinka Shonekan; Sam Nwajokwu; Muktar Shehu Shagari; Nkiru Anumudu; former Anambra governor, Mr. Peter Obi;  AFDB President, Akinwumi Adesina;  Kaduna State Governor, Nasir El-Rufai; Ex-Delta State governor, James Ibori; Prince Segun Oniru; Prince Terry Waya; Kingsley Moghalu; Timi Alaibe; Kola Abiola; Abike Dabiri Erewa; Kunle Bakare; Seyi Tinubu and Chief Bisi Olatilo, among others. Prince Adewole Adebayo isn’t your run-off the mill politician. In fact, he is a professional who found himself in politics. You can call him an accidental politician who is tired of the status quo and ready to effect changes. Adebayo is a direct descendant of Alaafin Onigbogi and Alaafin Sango. He is also a direct descendant of Osemawe Odunola; grandson of Osemawe. A very successful businessman but amidst the plenty he found himself, the Prince from Owo, Ondo State isn’t happy. Besides, he believes he has something to contribute to helping Nigeria out of her present predicament. Neither his name nor his frame suggests affluence and influence. That’s because materialism has never meant anything to him. In fact, more than half of his firm’s income goes into helping the less privileged pro bono. For him, creating values is much more important than the urge and craze for wealth. According to him, “Create the values and you will see how wealth follows you. I have always known to create values. Here I am today”. But his charity activities aren’t enough, as he has repeatedly said that his support programmes cannot go round the nooks and crannies of the country. The 50 years old is at the moment the youngest male presidential aspirant; he is contesting for the presidency on the platform of the Social Democratic Party (SDP), the third force, which he believes will be the ruling party in the next ten months.