 Hammed Shittu Kwara State Governor, Alhaji AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq, has lauded the Emir of Ilorin, Alhaji Ibrahim Sulu-Gambari, on his strong commitments to security, peace, harmony and general well-being of the people. In a statement issued yesterday on the occasion of the 82nd birthday anniversary of Emir of Ilorin, Alhaji Sulu-Gambari signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Rafiu Ajakaye, Governor AbdulRazaq stated that the Emir has continued to demonstrate his uncommon leadership traits and fatherly disposition to all sons, daughters and residents of the Emirate, resulting in phenomenal growth and unity of the ancient town. The governor said, “On behalf of my family, the government and good people of Kwara State, I celebrate the Mai Martaba and Chairman of the Kwara State Council of Chiefs Dr. Ibrahim Sulu-Gambari on his 82nd birthday anniversary. “I commend His Royal Highness’s commitment to peace, promotion of our cultural heritage, and his support for government’s programmes and policies for the greater good of our community and Kwara State as a whole. “I, therefore, join the rest of the Ilorin Emirate and Kwara State to beseech Allah to grant the Emir good health and strength.” Also, the Speaker, State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. Yakubu Danladi-Salihu, has described Emir of Ilorin Sulu-Gambari as a fine and refined monarch, renowned jurist, and legal luminary that has continued to demonstrate exceptional and charismatic leadership qualities for the people. In his congratulatory message on the 82nd birthday of the first class monarch, the Speaker joined family, friends, well-wishers and the good people of Ilorin Emirate to celebrate the Emir of Ilorin. “My hearty congratulations go to our father, the Emir of Ilorin, and Chairman, Kwara State Traditional Council of Chiefs and Obas, Dr. Ibrahim Sulu-Gambari on this joyous moment of his 82nd birthday anniversary, it is indeed a great feat for anyone (of his revered position) to achieve. “Our father had paid his due as a foremost and respected jurist of note and he continues to do more as a first-class Emir and leader of the state Traditional Council providing quality leadership for the people and contributing to the peace and socioeconomic development of Ilorin and Kwara State as a whole. “On behalf of my esteemed colleagues at the Kwara State House of Assembly, the Ninth Legislature, we wish our father a long and healthy reign on the throne of his forefathers,” Danladi-Salihu said.