 Juliet Akoje The Centre for Social Justice, Equity and Transparency has urged the Nigerian Senate to toe the  line of their counterparts, by concurring to the NYSC Trust Fund  Bill, while calling on President Muhammad Buhari, to speedily assent to the bill, when sent by the National Assembly. At a press briefing in the National Assembly yesterday, the Convener of the group, Comrade Isaac Ikpa,  stated that the House is obviously full of members that look at the future of the nation and consider just how well our growth as a people is important to the success of governance. He added that our place as a nation in the continent and the world is only further emphasised  with bills such as this one, making it known who we are, and how we conduct our  affairs. He stressed that “it is good to know that the full nation is coming to the realization of acknowledging that NYSC is the best way to imbibe the spirit of Nationalism in our youths. Now is the time for our young individuals to understand that the Nation that they have once thought of giving up on, actually cares about their welfare and survival.” “This is the time they need to understand that they are Nigerians and not just Igbos, Yorubas, Hausas and other tribes in the country. Meeting people from different parts of the country has helped many individuals understand other cultures and promotes unity amongst diversity. NYSC has made possible for our Nigerian youths. “In the light of the affairs going on in today’s world, with all of the evils happening, we need a ray of hope, a light, a promise for our children, and youths. An assurance that the nation will care for them at all stages, that the nation has them in mind and that their successes are important to the growth of the nation. So, much about their lives and future. One of the problems Nigeria has had is  the problem of, ‘what’s next after school and service’? According to Ikpa, “Most of our youths have had difficulties trying to find jobs and for those who receive entrepreneurial tutorship and developing skills, there is usually little to nothing to help with launching out. It is therefore a victory for the nation that there is now a light of hope to help these youths launch out on their own, something to help them start up a business.” “The Centre for Social Justice, Equity and Transparency is appreciative of this move, this move that will push our youths to do more. Small businesses have often helped with boosting economies of nations all over the globe. Nigeria has the human capacity and now we will also have the financial capacity to grow”, the group said. He commended the federal government and the NYSC body, for the many intervention programs and policies across the orientation camps and other formations in the country. “The Centre for Social Justice, Equity and Transparency is happy to state that majority in this country have gone pass the obvious delusive opinion and rumors about NYSC being a time waster. We all have seen its ripple effect as an evidence which has countered ever libels against the scheme. “From the mandatory COVID-19 tests carried out on prospective corps members before their admittance into the orientation camps, to the top-notch  basic amenities provided by the scheme to corps members, and top security measures being put in place by the efforts of the sagacious officials.” “We would also not forget the renovations being carried out in several orientation camps across the country. This goes a long way to show that the Nigerian government and the NYSC officials have the corps members at heart and they take their health and safety as a priority. Now is the time  to look into their financial stability. “Moreover, our youths have been a great beneficiaries of this schemes over the years. Should we deny them the greater benefits that is ahead of them? Obviously No. This is the best time for Nigeria to give back a historical benefit to the youths through the NYSC Trust Fund. Unlike every other benefits that have come before now, it’s time to give them the hope of standing fully on their own feet after completing their service. This is a hope for a great beginning of another phase in their lives. “NYSC has been a long-existing solution that has helped cement  the many cracks in tribalism, cultural diversity, Unity, Equity, and Patriotism. The trust fund is not just a step in the right direction, it’s a great turn for us, a great turn for our nation. The house has proven again why they are the right leadership for us”, the group added. The group also expressed gratitude to the House of Representatives, for passing a Bill for an Act to establish NYSC Trust Fund. The Lower Chamber of the National Assembly, had last  Wednesday  passed the Bill, after the adoption of the recommendations of the House Committee on Youth Development, chaired by Hon. Yemi Adaramodu. The Bill seeks to provide adequate funding for NYSC to provide skill acquisition, training and empowerment of Corps Members, conduct training and retraining of NYSC personnel, development of Camps and NYSC formations and facilities therein.