 Michael Olugbode in Abuja The Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS) at the weekend said that the deployment of ICT solutions in border security had become inevitable for the country and called for enhanced funding. The service noted that there was an urgent need for some deliberate actions to improve the current security architecture across the country’s blue borders. The Acting Comptroller General of the service, Isah Idris made the call during a working visit to the NIS Blue Border Formations in Oron and Ibaka areas of Akwa Ibom State. Idris maintained that the rising volume of migratory activities along the nation’s international waterways measuring over 853 kilometres requires that a closer attention is devoted to the sector for improved surveillance. He noted that the waterways of Oron and Ibaka areas “are accessible to countries such as Mali, Benin, Togo, Ghana and Cameroon. So, concerted efforts should be made to equip all the agencies along that corridor for good security cover. During the visit, the acting comptroller general paid courtesy visits to the traditional institutions in the border communities where he solicited for their cooperation especially in information sharing to ensure effective border security. At the palace of the paramount ruler of Oron, His Royal Majesty Odiong Edet Akan, Idris said: “We have come to realise that no security/military agency can achieve enduring peace and order anywhere in the country without the partnership of the traditional rulers and members of the local communities.” He recalled that the traditional rulers had played great roles in the nation’s security arrangement during the pre and post-colonial eras and called for a revisit of the roles of traditional rulers in the nation’s security architecture. Speaking earlier, Akan said members of his communities have been and would continue to be very supportive to the Immigration Service and called for sustenance of the existing relationship. Idris later proceeded to Ibaka Control Post where he inspected the operational areas and a Jetty under construction. He said that when completed the Jetty will impact positively on operational activities at the Control and urged the personnel to continue to demonstrate strong commitment to duty. He thereafter paid a courtesy visit to the palace of the paramount ruler of Mbo local government area, His Royal Majesty Ogwong Okon Asukwo Abang. The royal father said his subjects would support, urging the government to invest more on maritime security. An interesting outcome of the visit to the Blue Border areas of Akwa Ibom State was the promise made by the Acting Comptroller General that the two control posts of Oron and Ibaka would be included in the eBorder project of the Service shortly. He noted that when this is achieved the two locations would be connected to the Command and Control Centre at the Service Headquarters real time and online, for effective surveillance and monitoring of all movements and activities in the areas.