 Femi Solaja with agency report Super Eagles’ inform striker Victor Osimhen’s ambition of winning the Serie A title this season with Napoli may have varnished after they suffered a huge blow in the 2-3 defeat at Empoli last night. The Nigerian forward played all 90 minutes with no goal and it was Dries Mertens and Lorenzo Insigne that put the away side two goals up before the home side rallied back late in the second half with a dramatic win. Napoli are yet to record title win since late Diego Maradona era almost 32 years ago and their two wins were in 1987 and 1990 when former Argentine legend, Maradona led the side to edge out AC Milan and Juventus respectively for the coveted trophy. But yesterday, Empoli without a victory in their previous 16 league games before Napoli’s visit, did the unexpected. Luciano Spalletti’s side who were expected to get the victory that would have seen them keep pace with league leaders Inter Milanand AC Milan, slumped. They were even more overwhelming favourites after a fine finish from Dries Mertens in the first half, and captain Lorenzo Insigne‘s  effort eight minutes into the second period put them in firm control. Napoli held the lead until the 80th minute when they inexplicably left Liam Henderson all alone to get the hosts back in the game, before a goalkeeping howler from Alex Meret let Andrea Pinamonti in to level three minutes later. The drama, however, was not done yet. Pinamonti slid in at the far post three minutes from time to send the home fans into delirious rapture. That defeat leaves Napoli defenders looking at each other wondering how they had thrown this encounter away. The defeat leaves Napoli third in the standings, without a win in three league games, and five points behind Inter having played a game more. Empoli stay 14th despite that rare victory. Meanwhile, Osimhen’s dream of playing in the UEFA Champions League may have put on hold any possibility of him joining Arsenal this summer. The Nigerian international, who has been on the radar of the Gunners this season, has scored 16 goals from 28 appearances in all competitions for Napoli. According toLa Gazzetta dello Sport, the Super Eagles star’s desire to play in Europe’s elite competition remains a major reason why he has not committed himself to the deal.