 Standard Chartered Bank Nigeria launched a double packed proposition for women! The Bank launched its Women Banking and Women Winning with Wealth (WWWW) proposition, in commemoration of International Women’s Day and to wrap up the month-long celebrations for women in March; to help women advance financially and sustainably. Speaking at the event, Head of Corporate Affairs, Brand and Marketing, Dayo Aderugbo, highlighted how they work as one in pursuit of their goal, to reduce gender inequality and empower women development through financial education, opportunity and stability The unique and well-researched offering will enable women entrepreneurs to acquire comprehensive financial and investment support as well as mentoring to start and grow their own businesses, increase their net worth, expand their investment capacity, achieve financial stability, and more. Aderugbo, noted that at this opportune moment in time, when people are exploring new opportunities, women are at the forefront of innovation and technology that continues to push frontiers once considered impossible. Aderugbo said, “For us as women, there has never been a more important time to express ourselves and strive for success in the areas that matter most, which include wellness, security, financial stability, freedom, and most importantly, to be the best version of ourselves. At Standard Chartered, we also recognize that we need to lean into this moment, to support and accelerate change, innovation and transformation that benefits every human being, especially women. “As part of its key objectives, Standard Chartered Bank is intent on improving the lives of 1 billion people by unleashing the full potential of women in its core markets, with the focal point being the creation of financial stability and road paths for women to attain equitable access to financial support, especially for small businesses. The bank is also committed to accelerating the provision of quality financial services to women across its markets, purposefully connecting Small and Medium Enterprises to the international market and building partnerships to expand the reach and scale of financial services.” The event also featured a panel anchored by the event host, Tolu Oniru-Demuren (aka Toolz), where the bank’s Head of Affluent Banking, Chima Ebor; Head of Wealth Management, Lanre Olajide; and Acting Head of Business Banking, Bisi Oke, provided insight on the new initiative. Speaking on the “Women in Business” propositions, Oke explained that the new offering will provide quality financial and non-financial support to boost productivity and increase economic diversification for businesswomen and businesses with women as majority shareholders. She said, “We have researched extensively, and the core focus is to ensure that we fill the gender gap. Our propositions, informed by several factors, include cost-saving on business accounts where clients get a 0% maintenance fee on any business account they open. We have affordable loans of up to N20m at discounted rates that are non-collateralized. We also have investment advisors who will hold one-on-one engagements with these business owners to help them grow their wealth.” Ms Chidinma Obi and Ms Uzoamaka Obul, two clients of the bank, recounted their separate experiences opening business accounts with Standard Chartered Bank, giving their assessment of the bank’s service delivery. While Obi commended the relationship managers for their patience and diligence in walking clients through the process and answering questions they may have, Obul encouraged more women to not just put money away as savings but “do some borrowing from the bank to make investments. I encourage all women to join priority bankers.”