 Hammed Shittu in Ilorin Stakeholders of  the All Progressives Congress (APC) in  Ekiti Local Government Area of Kwara State at the weekend called on the leadership of the party in the state to cede the ticket of the House of Representatives for Ekiti/Irepodun/Isin/Oke-Ero federal constituency to Ekiti LGA in the interest of equity, fairness and justice. Speaking at a press conference in Ilorin, the spokesman of the group and the  immediate-past Chairman of Ekiti LGA, Yinka Ayeni Dallas, said the clamour of the people of Ekiti council area to have the House of Representatives’ ticket conceded to them was premised on the principle of fairness. Dallas noted that: “Unlike other three local government areas within the same federal constituency, only Ekiti LGA has not been fortunate to have represented the constituency in the green chamber of the National Assembly.” Dallas, who led other party chieftains during the briefing, said the House of Representatives’ seat ought to be rotated among the four local government areas that form the constituency for sense of belonging. He recalled that Oke-Ero, Isin and Irepodun LGAs have had their fair shares in the House of Representatives’ seat, and it was only natural that Ekiti LGA be considered for the ticket of the ruling party in the forthcoming primary election. Dallas added: “Ekiti LGA has not run short of individuals with pedigree, capacity, capability and wherewithal to give the federal constituency quality representation in the lower arm of the National Assembly. “In Ekiti LGA, we are people who believe in equity, fairness and justice. Our calmness in approaching issues should not be taken for weakness. “We have people with prerequisite qualifications to represent Ekiti/Irepodun/Isin/Oke-Ero federal constituency but we have been sidelined since all these while in our local government area. “If you look at the people that have and still occupying the seat of Ekiti/Irepodun/Isin/Oke-Ero federal constituency in the House of Representatives, only Ekiti LGA has not been lucky to have its fair share, and it is only natural and logical we are considered for the ticket of the House of Representatives in the forthcoming primary election of the All Progressives Congress (APC). “We deserve to have a say in matters that concern us, and it is not helpful to stand aloof and bank on mere expectation.”