 Funmi Ogundare National Association of Proprietors of Private Schools (NAPPS), yesterday, appealed to members of the public to refrain from making unsavoury comments over the sex video involving some students of Chrisland Schools, who represented their school at the World School Games, in Dubai, United Arab Emirates. The association said the move would go a long way in ensuring the mental well being of the minors involved. The association also called for the introduction of a Lagos State Monitoring and Supervisory Committee among the school management team pending the conclusion of the investigation. The National President, Chief Yomi Otubela who made this appeal in a statement made available to THISDAY, stated that the acts portraying moral decadence are not exclusive to schools, as the issue cuts across every aspect of the society. According to him, “Since children are a reflection of the society they live in, it, therefore, shows that a concerted effort will be needed to nip the malaise in the bud. Sadly, moral decadence has eaten deep into the moral fabrics of the society and the result is what we are witnessing today in the society including our educational institutions.” He expressed concern that parents  are shying away from their  responsibility of shaping their children’s future through inculcating morally acceptable behaviour in them, adding that they prefer to shift the responsibility to the schools. Otubela regretted that the neglect of parental responsibility from home has made it a herculean task for the school to achieve much progress, saying, “for instance, when the background of a child is already faulty and without the needed support from home to effectively collaborate with the school management to address the identified challenges, one can only imagine how such a child will turn out to be in society.” The president, who emphasised on the shutdown of all branches of Chrisland Schools in the state by the government over the said sex video, noted that such move, might deny other children their rights to learn more and for those in the terminal classes the right to continue their preparation for their final examinations. “Equally of concern is the fact that the parents, as observed above, are not always available for the upkeep of their children.  So we are disturbed about what will become of these children for the period of the closure.”