 United Kingdom based humanitarian organisation with passion for girlsand women’s right, Jose Foundation UK has condemned the increasingspate of violence against women in Nigeria. Reacting to the death of popular gospel singer, Mrs OsinachiNwachukwu, who died last week from complications allegedly linked tospousal abuse, president of Jose Foundation UK, Dr Martins Abhulimhen,in a statement on Wednesday in London lamented the spate of abuse ofwomen in Nigeria which has in several cases terminated the lives ofmany women. He said the situation has taken a new dimension with the advent ofCOVID-19 in Nigeria and its impact on the economy of the country. He stressed that 48 per cent of Nigerian women have experienced atleast one form of violence since the pandemic quoting a United NationsWomen report. Abhulimhen said the death of Osinachi from complications allegedlyrelated to abuse from her husband brings to fore the quest by JoseFoundation UK to ending gender based violence GBV) in Nigeria. He said about one in four women is feeling less safe at home whileexisting conflict has increased within households since the pandemicstarted. “As a foremost humanitarian organisation in the fight for the rightsof girls and women in Africa, it’s a sad moment for Jose foundation UKover the death of Nigeria’s finest gospel artists, Mrs OsinachiNwachukwu on Friday last week. “Knowing that she died of complications from alleged domestic violenceis heart-breaking, a cause, we have been fighting against for years toend in the continent and to give girls and women a sense of belonging,improved living condition, right to justice, healthcare and education. “It’s on this strength that Jose Foundation is organising a conferenceto addressing Gender-Based Violence (GBV) in Abuja on July 30th atTranscorp Hilton, in collaboration with First Ladies of Nigeria,” Hesaid. Abhulimhen in the statement commended Nigeria’s Minister of WomenAffairs, Dame Pauline Tallen, who on Monday, vowed to get justice forthe late Osinachi. He also hailed the Police for wading into the matter; he urged them toensure that justice is served to whoever is responsible for the deathof Osinachi.