 Blessing Ibunge A new commercial bank, Premium Trust Bank, with recent licence of operation from Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), is set to open 22 branches across the country before the end of 2022. This as the management of the bank has promised to ensure a speedy service delivery to its customers. Speaking during the launch and opening of its first branch in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, the Chief Executive Officer of Premium Trust Bank, Mr. Emmanuel Efe Emefienim, said the bank will provide solutions to peculiar financial challenges of customers through innovation and speed of execution, improving lives, communities and businesses. He explained that the bank will do this through premium service delivery, premium human capital, and premium customer experience. Emefienim also noted that the bank will be co-creating financial solutions with its customers to ensure alignment and seamless adoption at the stage of product deployment. He disclosed that the bank will open five additional branches within the next 60 days; and then wrap up with a total of 22 branches across the country by end of 2022 He said, “I have said it many times that drawing up strategy in banking is not new. We are not necessarily coming to re-invent the wheel because the banking business especially in Nigeria, has a lot in common. We trade in the same industry and we all have the same regulator; you find out that the industry somehow operates within a boundary. “But then, there’s a differentiating factor; we have realised that while all banks tend to offer the same kind of service, there is something that is unique or different when it comes to execution. Put it this way, a bank takes a position to offer certain kind of service, but then it takes them such a long time to deliver this service. And then, you find another bank come on board, offer the same kind of service, but they deliver it in record time.” “The speed of execution is something that will speak for us in the industry. We are going to be deliberate about it. We know the people, we know the market, we have the experience; we understand the environment, and we understand the business. “So, when you have strong knowledge of the people, the market and the business, speedy execution comes easy. This is because you are clear about what you want to do. Also add that we are going to leverage on technology to make all of these happen,” Emefienim explained. Emefienim added: “We are not going to come up with products and just dump them on customers; not at all; We will sit with our customers, extract from them what their specific needs are, and then co- create solutions towards meeting those needs. “The customers will be part of the process. This is in the sense that we understand what they want, we sit with them to proffer solutions to those problems, and we come up with products that are tailor-made to solving the problems.