 All Progressives Congress presidential aspirant, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and his wife, Senator Oluremi  Tinubu  yesterday urged Nigerians to remember that we are one family in spite of our different religions. In a Good Friday message, they said this season is a precious opportunity to be thankful to God for His mercy and to focus on Christ’s life of service, sacrifice and compassion toward all. “It is a time to reflect on our belief in the Divine and what that means as we go about the conduct of our daily lives. In this, we are reminded that we Nigerians may be of different religions, yet we are of one family. We serve but one God.  This year has brought together the sacred days of two of the great Abrahamic religions. As Christians commemorate the sacrificial death of Christ, Muslims observe the Holy Month of Ramadan. In this, we are reminded that we Nigerians may be of different religions, yet we are of one family. We serve but one God,” they said. The Tinubus called on  both Christians and Muslims their brothers and sisters. They said: “We seek a land based on the compassion, love, and selflessness Jesus preached and lived and for which he gave his innocent, blameless life. Given that each of these great faiths hold compassion, devotion, humility and peace among their pillars, there is no room amongst us for those who might use religion to divide and sow discord among brothers and neighbors. We must stand against those who seek to do injustice to another because of their religious creed, ethnicity, or place of origin. God made all humankind for his purpose and that purpose no man has the right to disrupt or question. “Thus, we mark our common humanity and dedication to peace for all. As we celebrate Jesus’ sacrifice this day, let us remember the millions of people who have been displaced by violent conflict and attack in our own nation. “On this Good Friday, let us remember our sacred duty to uphold the dignity of every human being. Let all who suffer be close to our hearts and become our brothers and sisters. May we labor to give them relief and to end the cause of their oppression. Let us truly do good to one another this Friday.”