 Fashion is undeniably evolving. Nigerian designers are making timeless pieces for Nigerians and others who drool over them. One such designer is African Fashion Ambassador, Lexy Mojo-Eyes. He is the President/CEO of Legendary Gold Ltd, a vanguard in the Nigerian fashion and modelling industries. Since its inception in 1996, Legendary Gold Ltd has become the reference point in fashion and modelling in Nigeria. In this interview, the fashion expert and consultant for the African Union and UNESCO in the African Creative Industry since 2016, talks about his work, the fashion industry, and new projects. How would you define yourself and your journey into the fashion world? I will say I am a pioneer in the Nigerian and African fashion industry. I set the pace for the success of what you see today in African fashion globally. I reoriented Nigerian designers to look inwards to local fabrics, accessories and designs. And I reorientated Nigerians to start wearing locally made in Nigeria clothes and patronising the local fashion industry in the process. I started taking Nigerian and African designers to the catwalks of Paris, Milan, London, New York and all over the world in 1998. What is African Fashion Reception all about? The Africa Fashion Reception (AFR) is a Pan African initiative. Every year, it brings together fashion designers and entrepreneurs, exhibitors, dignitaries, ambassadors and media from all over Africa, in a celebration of cultural diversity expressed through the artistic fashion discipline with the proud theme ‘Africa is the New Inspiration of Global Fashion’. The Africa Fashion Reception is aimed at achieving the following objectives using the creative industry of fashion as a vehicle to build bridges by creating free trade and partnerships among fashion practitioners throughout the African continent-taking advantage of the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA). To attract global attention to Africa’s very rich and diversified dress culture which can be explored as a catalyst for the social economic growth of the continent’s garment/textile industry. To expand the potential power of fashion as a tool of fighting poverty in Africa by creating wealth through the empowerment of women and youths in the various fashion vocations through training, capacity building schemes, workshops and setting up of medium/small scale businesses thereby supporting the United Nations Sustainable Development and the African Union Agenda 2063. Two events are organised annually. They include the African and global editions hosted by the African Union in Addis Ababa and UNESCO in its headquarters in Paris respectively. What is your perception of the Nigerian fashion industry? The Nigerian fashion industry has incredible promise and a future ahead. We have over the years invested heavily in the industry because we saw the potential when nobody believed in it. As a result of the success of our contribution to the Nigerian fashion industry, I got appointed to the Board of Governors of the World Fashion Organization in 2009. That took me away from Nigeria in 2012. Can you share your growing up experience? Growing up was a great experience. My mum brought up my late elder sister and I as a single parent. I owe everything I am today to her. She taught me resilience, hard work and the never give up quality I have today. What is your definition of style? For me style personifies who you are. It’s your lifestyle which includes what you eat and drink, the clothes you wear, the car you drive among others. Style is your lifestyle. Are you working on any new project? Agogo Africa is an innovative e-commerce platform that connects the African fashion industry to local and international patronage. It’s a portal dedicated to displaying African designer wear and fashion accessories that cut across the entire fashion value chain, for purchases directly from African creatives. The major criteria for eligibility to sell on Agogo Africa is that the products must be made in Africa with locally sourced materials. Also, the quality of products must be of high standard verified by our quality control team. The Unique feature about Agogo Africa is that it also provides the opportunity to source the raw materials the fashion industry players need in the course of production. We have an exclusive and comprehensive directory of African textile manufacturers, garment factories, leather producers (tanneries), gemstone producers, artisans etc. With a listing of manufacturing hubs and garment factories across the continent, designers can conveniently link up and produce high quality made-in-Africa fashion goods from anywhere across Africa thereby creating more jobs and expertise in the African fashion, textile and garment industry. The launch of Agogo Africa will be hosted in collaboration with the Nigerian Export Promotion Council on 5th of May 2022 at Export House in Abuja. Also, we are relaunching our event, Nigeria Fashion Week in Lagos, this November. What is your advice to young designers? My advice for newcomers in the fashion industry is to embrace creativity and originality.