Society Watch That the Adamawa State-born former Vice President and People’s Democratic Party (PDP) presidential aspirant for 2023, Atiku Abubakar, has been linked to five beautiful women – Titi, Fatima, Ruqqayat, Ladi, and Jennifer, otherwise known as Jamila, is not in doubts. But of these women, only Hajia Titi Abubakar and Jennifer are most talked about, particularly after the former VP had sacked Fatima, Ruqqayat and Ladi. A source disclosed to Society Watch that until recently Jennifer was the most loved and the apple of his eyes, a situation that reportedly troubled Titi. It was further revealed that Atiku practically kept Titi aside, while he enjoyed romantic moments with Jennifer, who also reciprocated by supporting him during his bid for the 2019 presidential election. They had both relocated to Dubai, which served as their romantic hideaway, while Titi was left in the cold here in Nigeria. Many were, however, shocked when Jennifer went to the press recently to spill the beans and washed their dirty linen in public and narrated how she was badly treated by her supposed lover boy. She said she had asked Atiku for divorce since  2021. She added that contrary to rumours, the union had hit the rocks after a disagreement over her continued stay in the United Kingdom with their children. We gathered that since his marriage to Jennifer crashed, Titi has once again wormed herself back to her husband’s heart. He is said to be showering her with love, which they both enjoyed while they were younger. Consequently, the light-skinned mother of four is ecstatic over this development, as they now travel around the country together for political consultations towards his 2023 presidential ambition. While Atiku served as the number two man under President Olusegun Obasanjo between 1999 and 2007, Titi had dazzled the social scene with their presence. She was also very powerful among the wives of the state governors. Her pet project, The Women Trafficking and Child Labour Eradication Foundation (WOTCLEF) was equally popular.