US-based Nigerian Disc Jockey, DJ Blaqq has towed the part of other celebrity crossover DJs by expanding his career pathway with the release of his debut song, Costa Rica off his forthcoming EP. The Kwara State-born music aficionado now wants to use his own original sound to connect with a wide audience outside his local audience in the city of Texas where he has impressed people of different colour with his amazing skills behind the console. DJ Blaqq while giving more insights said, “At the moment, I’m currently working on an EP. It’s a joint project with Mystro. We just dropped a song called Costa Rica now. It’s a huge and exciting one for me.” According to him, his relationship with music goes way back. He reveals, “Music started back in Lagos. I used to be A&R Manager for Davido’s artiste, Danagog. Then, I was so much interested in music too but I was not singing. I knew quiet well that I would be a music DJ because I fell in love with the craft back then in high school where I performed at our social nights.  My earliest musical influence include artistes such as Plantashun Boys, R.Kelly, Wycleff, Bob Marley and Born Jamaicans.” He continued, “Back then, friends and family would call me randomly to come play for them. I was doing it for free then but I started to charge when random people started to call for my service. That was how it became a big deal for me. I have performed as a DJ at occasions such as Nigerian Yatch Party, Miami, Olamide US Tour and Davido In Dallas. I have done countless number of weddings, private events, SXBW etc.” “I also run my own entertainment company known as Blaqq LLC. We have organized shows for several artistes including after-parties for the likes of Davido, Wizkid and Fire Boy. I have curated shows for international artistes such as Ginuwine and Bobby Valentino,” he revealed further. Speaking on his technique, he disclosed, “my style of DJ-ing is unique because I’m someone that’s is so deep into music. I’m not consumer of music, I consider myself a music coinnoseur and that’s why I get to DJ for white people and older people. I would spin classic music like Sade Adu, Kenny Rogers, Tina Turner etc. This attribute has made a lot of people fall in love with my style. 