 Chuks Okocha and Udora Orizu in Abuja Vice President Yemi Osinbajo; former Vice President Atiku Abubakar; President of the Senate, Dr. Ahmad Lawan; Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, and his deputy, Hon. Idris Wase, Governor Dapo Abiodun of Ogun State and his Ekiti State counterpart, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, have called on Nigerians, particularly the Muslim Ummah, to pray for peace, security in Nigeria, as they enter the Holy Month of Ramadan.They made the call while congratulating Muslim faithful in Nigeria and around the world on the sighting of the crescent of the Holy month of Ramadan. In a statement signed by his Senior Special Assistant (Media), Mr. Laolu Akande, the vice president stated: “As another new moon ushers in the blessed month of Ramadan, I wish to felicitate with the Muslim community on yet another opportunity to witness this holy month of devotion, sacrifice, compassion, generosity and selflessness.“This is a time for personal deep reflection and service to community. I urge you to be guided by the lessons of Ramadan, while renewing your spiritual connection, to offer prayers for peace and continued prosperity in our nation. May God accept all your acts of sacrifice and piety.” Also in a statement issued yesterday by his media office, Atiku noted that the news of the commencement of Ramadan fasting, starting on April 2, 2022, is an opportunity for Nigerians to, once again, seek the blessings and favours of the Almighty Allah in praying for solutions to the problems that affect us as individuals and as a nation.“It is with great joy that I congratulate Muslims in Nigeria and the world over on the sighting of the Ramadan crescent, which signifies the commencement of compulsory month-long fasting. “Going by the challenges that confront us as a country, this holy month presents us with another divine opportunity to seek the mercies and blessings of Allah upon our respective lives and our country as a whole.  “I will therefore call on Muslims to take utmost advantage of this holy month as we continue to promote peace and prosperity in the fatherland towards making us one people with a one future and citizens of one prosperous country.” On his part, Lawan enjoined Muslims to use the opportunity of the Ramadan to pray for Nigeria, knowing that Allah answers the prayers of the faithful.The Senate president added that the essence of Ramadan is even more significant as Nigerian seek solutions and divine guidance out of the challenges that are currently facing the country. “It is a period of spiritual reflection, abstinence, sacrifice and supplications to the Almighty Allah,” Lawan said.On his part, Gbajabiamila noted that the Holy month of Ramadan comes with a lot of blessings, but also entailed a lot of sacrifices, including total abstinence from indulgences. In a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Mr. Lanre Lasisi, Gbajabiamila urged Muslims to use the period to pray for peace and unity in the country.He called on the faithful to observe Ramadan fasting in accordance with Islamic injunctions and wished them a successful month of Ramadan. Similarly, the Deputy Speaker, of the House of Representatives Hon. Idris Wase has enjoined Muslims Ummah to use the Ramadan period to show more love to the their neighbours and other vulnerable members of the society.Wase urged the rich to show compassion and extend hands of support to the less privileged Governor Fayemi, in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Olayinka Oyebode, described Ramadan as “the glory of all months in the Islamic calendar”, adding that Ramadan fast is one of the five pillars of Islam that Muslims must strictly adhere to in line with the injunction of the Almighty Allah. The governor noted that Ramadan offers an opportunity to draw closer to Allah and deepen relationship with him.He therefore urged Muslims to use the period to pray for peace to reign in all the troubled spots in the country and in nations of the world. He also urged them to use the Ramadan season to pray for peace and prosperity in Ekiti State, especially the forthcoming governorship election in the state. He said through prayer and cooperation of the people, the state would witness a peaceful election and smooth transition of power to the eventual winner. Fayemi prayed that the holy month will usher in abundant grace and blessings for the faithful.In his message,  Abiodun also felicitated Muslim Umah in the country in general and Ogun in particular, on the beginning of fasting in the Holy Month of Ramadan. Abiodun, in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Kunle Somorin,  described the month of Ramadan as one with abundant mercy of Allah, acceptance of prayers and forgiveness, calling on the faithful to use the opportunity to pray for the nation and the state. He said the Holy Month with its attendant virtues should serve as a guide, moral and spiritual compass for the Muslims, urging them to uphold the tenets of Ramadan.