 Emma Okonji Technology experts who attended the 2022 Public Lecture organised by the Department of Information and Communications Technology, Lagos State University (LASU DICT) in Lagos recently, have stressed on the need to improve email usage pattern as a measure to protect organisations’ network and also to improve Internally Generated Revenue (IGR). At the public lecture, which is in its 8th edition, participants raised the alarm that 95 per cent of generated data on the web, has not been fully analysed, thus reducing the chances of Internal Revenue Generation (IGR) and exposing the use of emails to cyber risks in the cyberspace. The lead speaker, who is the Acting Director of Directorate of LASU DICT, Dr. Toyin Enikuomehin, emphasised the need for organisations to begin to see email services as a way of branding, trust building, and for better service delivery. The General Manager, Ogun State Property Investment Corporation (OPIC), Temitope Ifedayo, who also delivered a paper on cyber security, cautioned all users of emails to always ensure that their emails are protected when browsing online. He insisted that email users must always be vigilant as spoofing is a common occurrence that still exists in the cyberspace and may not leave us so soon. One of the speakers from the United Kingdom, who is the CEO of AlphaBeta Coop, London, Mr. Adeleye Lawal, leveraged on earlier contributions to analyse email management of service subscriptions. He further explained that more that 95 per cent of the data generated on the webspace were not analsysed, adding that the situation has exposed the under-utilisation of the several opportunities that are associated with data generation that were not yet explored. The moderator, Dr. Oluwaseun Babalola of the Faculty of Science, Lagos State University (LASU), applauded the discussants and thanked the University for the opportunity given to discuss cybersecurity in today’s digital era. He said resolutions at the conference, which world be made available to the relevant authorities, would benefit organisations in improving their profit margin.