 Ahmad Abubakar explains the interest of a political group domiciled in the North-east in the emergence of Dr. Bukola Saraki as President of Nigeria The North East Consolidated Group (NECG) gladly supports the endorsement of the two young presidential aspirants from the North-east and North-central regions. The pioneer Chairman of the group Mr. Ahmad Yobe appreciates the bold step taken by the Northern Elders Forum under the leadership of Prof. Ango Abdullahi and the Northern PDP caucus ahead of PDP Presidential primaries. Mr. Ahmad thanks the Northern Elders for respecting every regional sense of belonging where no region would have to complain of being marginalized. Mr. Abubakar Yobe  highlighted that, the rationale for bringing forth the young contenders from North-east and North-central under PDP will go a long way in uniting the the 19 Northern states, reflecting back to the history that the two regions have not been chanced to produce presidents in a democratic dispensation. The North-west had effortlessly produced three democratic presidents right from the First Republic till date, with the support of the North-east and North-central. The group hopes that the North-west will continue to support the North-east and the North-central as the table turns  in 2023.The group had commended the massive  transformation Bauchi State is going through in the hands of Senator Bala Mohammed. And also wishes that the Governor would not risk handing over unfinished transformation projects he has embarked upon to a newbie. We hope the governor stays back, in order to focus on the state transformation to completion.  The North-eastern Region still needs Senator Bala. The governor’s efforts is boosting the economic, social and political capital of the entire North-east. There is a need to continue with Senator Bala  for another four years as a Governor from 2023 to 2027 for a better and  effective   development. By 2027, NECG believes that Nigeria would surely yearn for his kind of  leadership to replicate in other states the giant transformation that Bauchi State and the  North-east is enjoying from Governor Bala Mohammed today and hopefully tomorrow. However, Senator Abubakar Bukola Saraki being a well groomed personality, young and perfectly fit for the task of rescuing Nigeria from the glaring danger Nigeria is facing today. Therefore,  NECG stresses the need for not just the North but Nigeria as a whole to work together to rescue the country. Former Senate President Dr. Bukola Saraki as a Medical Doctor, financial expert from the banking industry, astute politician with the vivid understanding of governance, two-term state Governor, one term successful Senate President with the technical experience of national, international economy and  governance; should be seen as the best option and the opportunity Nigeria needs to heal and make rewarding progress.