 Udora Orizu in Abuja The House of Representatives has rescinded its earlier decision to discharge several ad-hoc and standing committees it set up to carry out various tasks, which have failed to present their reports within the stipulated time frame. The Speaker, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, who made this known last Tuesday, had directed the Chairman, Committee on Rules and Business, Hon. Hassan Fulata, to get the list of the affected committees ready by yesterday. But at the plenary yesterday, Gbajabiamila said having reviewed his earlier position, the submission has been extended to first week of May. He warned that any committee that fails to submit the report within the few weeks, the House will invoke the provisions of order 18 Rule 3 of the Standing Orders of the House to discharge the committees accordingly. Gbajabiamila said: “We have reviewed our positions, and I am now informing standings committees and ad-hoc committees that legislative measures referred to them that have not been ported out against the purpose and intent of order 18 rule 3 of the Standing Orders of the House and in view of this, chairmen of standing committees and ad-hoc committees that are yet to conclude work on the legislative measures referred to them are requested to turn in their reports within two weeks failing which the House will invoke the provisions of order 18 rule 3 of the Standing Orders of the House to discharge the committees accordingly. “I have the list of the committees here; they know themselves, so we are reviewing the decision of yesterday and you have two weeks to turn in your report irrespective of whether we are on Easter break or whatever break…First week of May, all reports are to be turned in otherwise we will invoke our rules.” Also at the plenary, Gbajabiamila set up a conference committee that will meet with their Senate counterparts to harmonise differences in the anti-sexual harassment bill. Lawmakers had last year passed the bill which seeks to prohibit and punish sexual harassment of students by educators in tertiary educational institutions. Gbajabiamila said members of the committee include Hon. Idris Yerima, Hon. Lynda Ikpeazu, Hon. Tolulope Sadipe and three others.