 Sylvester Idowu in Warri A frontline Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship aspirant in Delta State, Dr. Chris Iyovwaye, has vowed to revamp all moribund industries scattered across the state if elected governor of the state. He also pledged to create more industries to tackle unemployment, a major problem confronting the youths of the state who were allegedly turned to ‘Keke riders’, and charged delegates of the party to look beyond immediate financial reward and vote for the right person that will fly the flag of the party in 2023 governorship election. Iyovwaye, a renowned businessman and industrialist, particularly charged the delegates to consider the future of the state and that of their unborn children while casting their votes for who becomes the standard bearer of the party in the coming election. The governorship aspirant gave the admonition last weekend when he separately met with delegates of the PDP from Warri South, Uvwie and Udu Local Government Areas. Iyovwaye, who is the chief executive officer (CEO) and managing director of Wellmann Group of Companies, said he joined the governorship race to bring to bear his worth of experiences as a businessman into governance. While addressing delegates at the PDP Secretariat in Effurun and Warri, the governorship aspirant stressed that he has the capacity to govern the state and bring about unprecedented development to all corners of the state. He stated that Delta State under him as governor would experience rapid development and create an enabling environment for investors. According to him, “Where we are going is glorious. The election is not far away; money is good but let’s vote conscience. We need somebody who can proffer solutions to the myriads of challenges confronting us as a state as the governor, and I am that person. “If I can do it in my private businesses, I will do more as a governor. I am a solution provider. Look at the GDP of Delta State, it’s has been N4 trillion in the last four years. I wish to consolidate on past achievements by doubling the figures. How do you double the figures? It’s by reviving moribund factories across the state. And look at our IGR in the state, it’s N62 billion in a year, Lagos works N48 billion in a month. There’s something to be done. “All we need is a governor who knows what to do. The figures are there. That’s why I stand before you today, our dear delegates. We must consider the future of Delta State and when our families when we are to cast our votes. Let’s look at what is before us on who can help our community and the state.”