Onuminya Innocent In Sokoto The National Organising Secretary of People Democratic Party (PDP) Col.Umar Bature (rtd) said the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC) rose to power through lies and propaganda. Bature stated this at the weekend while fielding questions from newsmen at his residence in Sokoto.He said after spending almost seven years in power, APC is still sustaining its regime with lies and deceits. “You know people said we did not put the government in power on their toes, we can’t do same, we spent 16 years in power, they have spent nearly seven years now, Nigerians have seen the difference,” he added. He maintained that APC administration has failed to match achievements made by PDP in 16 years stressing that APC was able to give Nigerians propaganda having allegedly failed to deliver dividends of democracy to the citizenry. “Let me tell you when this people were in opposition, they politicised all issues of governance without. Proffering a single solution to any of them.He further disclosed that the current administration is not sincere in handling security challenges bedeviling the nation. “You know if one is to tackle the security challenges facing the country , you use political, economic and military tactics. When there is poverty, unemployment,  there is tendency  for  crime rates to  increase,” he stated. “See what happened recently at MKO Abiola stadium in Abuja where Nigeria failed to qualify for World cup. People poured  their anger not just because Super Eagle lost but  due to the fact that  they were  angry because no fuel , there  is  insecurity challenge  everywhere. Inflation has risen to double digits. So, if Nigeria  had won  that match, that might have pacified their anger a little,” he said. He stated that so far 13 aspirants have purchased  the PDP’s  presidential forms, saying PDP is a party to beat in 2023 election. When asked how the party would manage the rancour that will emanate after the primaries, he said the party has internal mechanism in handling it issues.