 In a pseudo-spirited first speech on the campaign, French President, Emmanuel Macron posited that he might lose the French elections to the far right and urged the people to fight for France. The shocking thing is since the pandemic, all nations of the world have passed through the re-emergence of the far right movement. The wave crystallized in Europe with the likes of Geert Wilders Member of the House of Representatives of the Netherlands, who almost defeated the leader of Holland in an election. Also countries like Britain felt the heat with Nigel Farage and his Brexit push. Across the pond, President Trump was greatly supported by the far right movement that hinged their philosophy on rabid nationalism, anti-immigration and division. The proliferation of far right media has also played a role, the likes of GBnews in Britain and CNews in France where Eric Zemmour was an analyst before he became presidential candidate have given oxygen to such ideas. Media is the opium of the mind and once the media steadily pushes an idea it becomes mainstream. The far right media have been created by people that want a Schumpeterian destruction in politics, people like Vincent Bollore of Bollore logistics that funds CNews in France. Ms Le Pen has also been a big beneficiary of the far right media play, as she gained up to 21% of the votes leading up to first round polling. She is closely followed by Mr Melechon at 15% and Mr Zemmour at 12%. The next wave of fight in Europe will be that of ideology. Some far rights pundits argue that Europe is going through a re-renaissance period and the French elections will only herald it. A lot of people are baffled by the rhetoric of Ms Le Pen and Monsieur Zemmour. They said it is at variance with the ethics of liberty, egalite et fraternite, but Mr Zemmour argues that France has lost its imperial value and it must be restored. The challenge is Mr.Macron campaign speech was underwhelming and did not preach hope but it projected fear of a probable loss to the far right, apart from the normal economic interventions. I believe Mr Macron should improve on his message of hope and fight more on the campaign to increase his 27% vote to at least 30% before the first round. In the run up to the first elections Mr.Macron wrote a book, “Revolution,” where he enunciated his goals for a brighter and prosperous France. I think it is time for Macron to sell his book on this campaign to the people. If he doesn’t do this he might lose the elections in the second round. Rufai Oseni, rufaioseni@gmail.com