 For Aare Adetola Olaonipekun EmmanuelKing, the head honcho of Adron Homes, birthday is more than just hosting a mega soiree, fêting friends and family to an array of sumptuous meals, high-cost drinks; calling praise singers to sing one’s praises and eulogy to the high heavens. While many had taught that the philanthropist and real estate top player would throw his gates open for a lavish birthday shindig in celebration of his 47th birthday on Saturday, April 2, he opted for a very private celebration devoid of fanfare, where he was joined by his immediate family, few staff members and close friends. With his experience about life, the birthday for the Otun Akile of Remo land is a moment to reflect on beautiful memories and appreciate the Giver of life for preserving him at a time when many of his peers who could afford all the luxuries of life had been visited by the dreaded grim reaper, taking them on a sojourn of no return. Thus, giving back to his immediate environment and reaching out to the downtrodden is a proper way to celebrate. Since he ventured into the real estate business 10 years ago, one thing has stood him out: his ideas and foresight laced with integrity. With these, the Ogun State-born cosmopolitan debonair has been able to build a formidable real estate empire that has continued to shatter the stereotype and break norms, giving low-income earners a roof over their heads with a seamless and well-structured payment plan. The graduate of Estate Management and Development from the University of Ibadan has never slowed down in ensuring affordable homes for all and sundry regardless of their class strata. Those close to him disclosed that one thing the Otun-Onigbagbo of Remo land does not joke with is his company’s constant engagement with their estate hosts across the country through Corporate Social Responsibility CSR. Still basking on the euphoria of his 47th birthday celebration, sources divulged that the Aare Apesinola of Ibadan this week will be reaching out to the needy in all their estate host communities with birthday goodies. “GMD has arranged and ordered that raw food items, groundnut oil, cows and other edible foodstuffs should be doled out. He will also hand out cash, scholarships and clothing to children. He loves to celebrate his birthday by making an impact,” a source disclosed.