 Vanessa Obioha The Otedolas came in full glamour to celebrate the former First Lady of Lagos State, Lady Christine Doja Otedola in Epe, Lagos recently. The matriarch of the family clocked 90 on Sunday, April 3, and was highly celebrated by her children and grandchildren in an elegant event that had prominent personalities in attendance. As a musical family, the Otedolas displayed their talent at the event starting with Rotimi, the younger brother of the renowned businessman and philanthropist Femi Otedola. Together with his band, Afrinero, they played both highlife and other indigenous sounds that had guests swooning to the rhythmic sounds of his guitar and other musical instruments. It was Rotimi who also welcomed his mother on stage when she was ushered into the reception. The nonagenarian, surrounded by her six children, danced joyfully. Not to be outdone, DJ Cuppy accompanied by dancers came on stage and electrified the atmosphere with her music selection. From popular Nigerian sounds of the aughts to present-day groove. Also, a singer, Cuppy thrilled the guests with her performance of her hit songs such as ‘Gelato’. The 29-year-old at a point had her grandmother and father up on their feet. Both walked to the stage, danced to her tunes and in an outpouring of love and admiration, others joined them and sprayed money on her. For her grandmother, Cuppy whose real name is Florence, played a sample of the popular Prince Nico Mbarga song ‘Sweet Mother’. But Cuppy was not the last member of the Otedola clan to perform at the high-octane event. Tolani, her older sister and also a musician dazzled guests with her performance, albeit in a mellow mood. Yet, Lady Doja could not hide her pride as she waved and blew her a kiss from her seat. A long-time favourite of the family, Juju maestro King Sunny Ade was among the performers at the birthday party. He opened his set with a medley of worship songs which immediately got Lady Doja on her feet. Accompanied by her son Femi, they stood in front of the elevated stage and danced to the sounds pleasurably. At 90, Lady Doja showed no signs of senility. If anything, her dance moves proved that the good Lord had blessed her with good health and mind. Some of the dignitaries who came to fete with her included the former president of Nigeria, Olusegun Obasanjo; Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, Governors of Lagos, Edo and Ogun States, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, Godwin Obaseki and Dapo Abiodun.