 Hammed Shittu in Ilorin A presidential hopeful under the platform of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Mr. Gbenga Olawepo-Hasim has said he would lead the country to the path of growth and development in 2023 if he emerges the president. The APC chieftain made this disclosure in Ilorin, Kwara state capital, yesterday, when he met with local government chairmen of APC across the 16 local government areas of the state over his presidential aspiration in 2023. This came barely a week after he hosted party chairmen from states in the North-central geo-political zone in Abuja. At the parley, Olawepo-Hashim restated his desire to seek the ticket of his party and subsequently lead the country back to the path of growth and development in 2023. While informing the gathering of his intention to formally declare for the race on May 3rd, 2022, he expressed commitment to unite the country, which he said was “presently badly divided along ethnic and religious lines.” He assured the crowd of keeping his promise of running an inclusive government to accommodate various tendencies in order to heal and assuage the pains arising from the various divisions and controversies across the nation. He maintained that the, “solution to national security, the unemployment problem, high cost of petroleum products and basic items requires new and fresh approach to handle, that those who have never paid for anything they consume in the past 23 years cannot understand.” Olawepo-Hasim used the occasion to urge Kwarans to vote for the APC at all levels, adding that he would ensure the consolidation of the ‘otoge’ revolution of 2019. “Victory for APC in 2023 in the state will consolidate on “otoge’ revolution. Kwara will never go back to slavery. Anything that is not APC in the state in 2023 is equal going back to slavery,” he said. He applauded the performance of the state Governor, AbdulRaman Abdulrazaq in the last three years and subsequently endorsed his second term bid to govern the state in 2023. He said worthy of commendation was the governor’s policy of giving political space to youths and women. The APC presidential aspirant hailed the state governor in his efforts to restore the dignity of the state in the areas of education, infrastructures and human capital development. The chairmen, many of whom were traditional political associates of the aspirant pledged their loyalty and support to who they say, “he is our own and ally of our Governor.” The Chairman, Isin local government area Segun Awogbade said that, “Mr Olawepo-Hashim is a very kind man, I have been his supporter for 25 years,” while Alhaji Shehu Yahaya, Chairman, Asa added that “we fought for the freedom of  Kwara together as our leader.”