 Lately, a combination of varied but interwoven factors, in addition to compliance with the law, have made it imperative for President Muhammadu Buhari to hearken to the legitimate demands of Niger Delta stakeholders, fulfil his own promise of June 24, 2021, and inaugurate the Board of NDDC, writes Nseobong Okon-Ekong As reported in the media last week, Civil Society Organisation, Niger Delta Peoples’ Forum (NDPF) has called on the Attorney General of the Federation (AGF), Abubakar Malami, to carry out the ruling of Hon. Justice Isa Dashen of the Federal High Court, sitting in Yenagoa, Bayelsa State, and allow the inauguration of the substantive Governing Board of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) in accordance with the provisions of the NDDC Act 2000 as amended. This followed the March 14, 2022, order of the Federal High Court sitting in Yenagoa, Bayelsa State, which granted a perpetual injunction restraining the AGF from further constituting an interim or sole administratorship to run the affairs of the commission. The court further said: “That leave is hereby granted to the applicant to seek an order of this Honourable Court directing the respondent to dissolve the current sole administrator-ship structure used to run the affairs of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC).” The court also directed the Attorney-General of the Federation (AGF) and Minister of Justice to stop placing the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) under any ministry including the Ministry of Niger Delta Affairs. The orders were made following a motion ex parte dated December 10th, 2021 and filed by Odighonin Adienbo on behalf of the Wailing Women of Niger Delta (WWND) and the Integrity Friends for Truth and Peace Initiative (IFTPI). The judge also asked the parties to return to the court tomorrow, April 5 for report of service, compliance and hearing. Also last week Wednesday, Chairman of Senate Committee on Ethics, Privileges and Public Petitions, Ayo Akinyelure called on President Muhammadu Buhari to inaugurate the NDDC Board without delay so as to remove one man’s overbearing influence on the Commission while also threatening to issue a warrant of arrest against the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Godswill Akpabio and the Sole Administrator of NDDC, Akwa Effiong, for severally snubbing the Senate Committee on Ethics, Privileges and Public Petitions with regard to over N72 Billion owed to contractors. Senator Ayo Akinyelure at a press briefing disclosed that the Minister and the Sole Administrator have been unanimous in administering the NDDC, an agency of government set up by an Act of Parliament, the way they like, hence, there were a plethora of petitions against them for refusing to pay contractors who executed projects for the Commission to the tune of N72 billion. The petitions which were referred to the Committee by the Senate Committee of the whole were being treated, but, disappointedly, Godswill Akpabio and the Sole Administrator, Effiong Akwa, who are in a position to offer explanation have been undermining the Committee’s work. Akinyelure confirmed to journalists that appropriations have been made yearly for contractors who executed projects across the Niger Delta States to be paid, wondering what might have happened, that Akpabio and the Sole Administrator chose to embarrass the President Muhammadu Buhari-led government, even as contractors keep protesting and lamenting all the time. “The contractors have executed projects to the tune of N72 billion and they have their evidence, so it’s up to Godswill Akpabio and the Sole Administrator of NDDC to come and explain why the contractors have not been paid despite yearly appropriations”, Senator Akinyelure said. Also in March, the Senate President, Dr. Ahmad Lawan stated the Senate’s readiness to work and ensure the inauguration of the Commission’s substantive Board “without further delay.” According to him, “I believe now that the forensic audit is over, we should have the NDDC run properly. Let there be full-fledged management and the governing board so that our people in the Niger Delta will continue to get the attention that made the NDDC to be established in the first place.” Again in the month of March there were widespread reports in the international and national media of renewed attacks on crude oil pipelines in the Niger Delta, which have forced major International Oil Companies such as Shell Petroleum and Agip to declare Force Majeure as a result of their inability to meet their contractual daily crude oil production, thus leading to daily loss of huge revenue to the nation. According to ThisDay report of Tuesday, March 15, 2022, titled “Shell, Eni Declare Force Majeure After Attacks on Oil Facilities in N’Delta,” Shell Plc and Eni SpA both declared force majeure on key oil flows from the Niger Delta, threatening to disrupt supplies. Quoting a Bloomberg report, ThisDay stated that Shell’s measure has been in place since March 3, and applies to its Bonny export programme, while Eni’s relates to Brass crude cargoes and followed a pipeline blast recently in Bayelsa state. Shipments of the two grades had been planned at a rate of 170,000 barrels a day next month but have been in a state of decline over the past few years, according to loading programmes seen by Bloomberg. Flows back in 2020 were planned at about 320,000 barrels a day.Also in another report in a national daily on Tuesday, March 15, 2022, titled “Energy Crisis: Nigeria To Lose N1.2bn Daily Over Agip Oil Export Cut” it stated that Nigeria’s energy crisis on Monday took a multiple dimension as Agip announced a halt in oil export at its 25,000 barrels per day (bpd) Brass export terminal in Bayelsa sequel to a blast at its facility, which could trigger a $2.84 million (about N1.2 billion) daily oil export loss. According to the paper, “Nigeria has been battling with activities of oil vandals who have been using advanced technology to blow up oil installations,” stating that “such activities have made it difficult for Nigeria to meet its OPEC quota and by extension lose billions of dollars at a period of rising oil prices in the international market.” The newspaper reports that the latest incident was the second attack in a few days after an earlier incident on February 28 at its Obama flow station led to a production shortfall of 5,000 barrels per day, according to the oil company. Although Nigeria’s OPEC production quota is pegged at 1.8 million bpd (barrels per day), our country is presently struggling with a production level of between 1.25 million and 1.4 million bpd. It was against this background of renewed vandalisation of oil pipelines that the Niger Delta Elders’ Forum also called on President Buhari to inaugurate the NDDC Governing Board in accordance with the law, to guarantee equitable representation of the nine constituent states, which they believe will inevitably douse the increased but avoidable tension in the region, and thereby ensure the stoppage of crude oil pipeline vandalisation which has suddenly reared up again in the Niger Delta to the detriment of the nation’s economy. It is clear from these intervening factors, and more, that the time has finally come for President Buhari to end the illegal sole administratorship at the NDDC and inaugurate the Board of the Commission in compliance with the law, and which promise he made to the nation on June 24, 2021 when he received the leadership of Ijaw National Congress (INC) in Aso Rock, Abuja. The President said: ‘‘Based on the mismanagement that had previously bedeviled the NDDC, a forensic audit was set up and the result is expected by the end of July, 2021. I want to assure you that as soon as the forensic audit report is submitted and accepted, the NDDC Board will be inaugurated.” The Forensic audit report has been submitted to President Muhammadu Buhari eight months ago, since September 2, 2021. Niger Delta Peoples’ Forum had earlier pointed out that “President Buhari’s silence on his commitment to inaugurate the NDDC Board in accordance with the law, and in fulfilment of his own promise of June 24, 2021, is of grave concern to Niger Deltans as it indicates a continued disregard by this government for the region as well as unwillingness to submit to transparency in administering NDDC.” The aberration currently in NDDC which has subsisted for over two years is that there is an illegal sole administrator who is both Managing Director, Executive Director of Finance, and Executive Director Projects, in clear breach of NDDC Act which ensures separation of these duties to ensure checks and balances. Legal luminaries such as Femi Falana (SAN) and stakeholders have continuously stated that the continued administration of the NDDC by Interim management committee / sole administrator is illegal because the NDDC Act has no provision for this illegality as the NDDC Act only provides that the Board and Management of the NDDC at any point in time should follow the provisions of the law which states that the Board and management is to be appointed by the President, subject to confirmation by the Senate. According to them, nobody is supposed to begin to administer the NDDC and utilise the huge funds accruing to it on a monthly basis without passing through this legal requirement as stipulated in the NDDC Act. Niger Deltans have, over the past two years, endured the abuse of the NDDC Act by the appointment of interim management committees and a sole administrator who are not fully representative of the nine constituent states, and have carried on without regard for due process. What is even more curious is that whereas the North East Development Commission (NEDC) has been allowed to function with its duly constituted Board in place in line with its NEDC Act thereby ensuring proper corporate governance, accountability, checks and balances and fair representation of its constituent states, the NDDC on the other hand has been run arbitrarily in the last two years by Interim committees/sole administrator in breach of the NDDC Act.