 •Exercise starts April 29 Chuks Okocha Ahead of the presidential primaries of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), the opposition party has empaneled a nine-member screening committee headed by a former senate president, Dr. David Mark, while the National Chairman of the party, Dr. Iyorchia Ayu, is to head the appeal committee. The screening of the 17 presidential aspirants of the party is, however, expected to start on April 29. Presidential aspirants to be screened are former Vice-President, Atiku Abubakar; two-terms governor of Kwara State and immediate past President of the Senate, Dr Abubakar Bukola Saraki; former President of the Senate and erstwhile Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Anyim Pius Anyim, and former Minister of the Federal Capital Territory and Bauchi State Governor, Senator Bala Mohammed. Also on the list are the 2019 PDP Vice Presidential candidate and former Anambra State Governor, Peter Obi; Sokoto State Governor, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal; former Minister of State for Education and Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike; Akwa Ibom State Governor, Udom Emmanuel; former Ekiti State Governor, Ayodele Fayose; a United States-based medical doctor, Nwachukwu Anakwenze and media mogul and Ovation Publisher, Dele Momodu. Others are Investment banker and economist, Mohammed Hayatu-Deen; a pharmacist, Sam Ohuabunwa, former speaker, Abia State House of Assembly, Cosmos Ndukwe; Charles Ugwu, as well as the only female aspirant in the race, Tareila Diana. With this, the party has generated N640 million from the 16 male presidential aspirants and N6 million from the only female presidential aspirant, Oliver Teriala Diana, making the revenue generated at N646 million. Apart from Mark, others on the screening committee are, Celestine Omehia, Mike Shanna (SAN), former governor of Ondo State,  Dr. Olusegun Mimiko, Edward Ashiekaa, SAN,  Mrs. Hilda Makonto, Dr. Akilu Indabawa, Hajia Hassana Dikko, Dr. Esther Uduehi, who will serve as secretary, while Ms Chinedu Nwchukwu, will serve as administrative secretary of the screening committee. The appeal committee, headed by Ayu, has the deputy national chairman of the party, Ambassador Umar Iliya Damagun, as member. Others on this committee are Ambassador Taofeek Arapaja,  Hon. Setonji Koshoedo, Jonathan. Hon. Umar Bature. Prof. Stella Effah Attorney,  Ahmed Yayari Mohammed, Jonathan Daniel Woyen, Hon. DANIEL Woygiikuro, Debo Ologunagba, Kamaledeen Adeyemi Ajinade,  Okechukwu Obiechina, Daniel Mohammed, Kadade Sulieman and Theoplhilus Dakas Shan. There’s also Chief Ali Odefa, Chief Dan Orbih, Emmanuel Bovoa, Hon. Soji Adagunodo,  Aminu Abdullahi, Mustapha Yaradua, Hajia Zanab Maina, Chief Fidelis Tapgun, Chief Charles Aderemi Akitoye, Chief Onyema Udochukwu, and Austin Opara. The national secretary of the PDP, Senator Samuel Anyanwu, will serve as secretary of the committee.