HighLife If there is one thing that the current nature and dynamics of politics in Nigeria would show to the willing historian, it would be that nothing is set in stone. The popular statesperson of yesterday can be washed down the drain tomorrow. And so it seems that the popular Oyo State gubernatorial aspirant and former Deputy Governor of Operations of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Adebayo Adelabu, is gradually losing out in the state’s chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC). It has been some time since Adelabu’s face covered the front pages of newspapers across Nigeria. The man appeared to have been biding his time and waiting for the best opportunity to spring his trap and catch the governorship seat. Recent events have onlookers convinced that Adelabu might indeed join the race, but he won’t be catching anything gubernatorial, except the loss that many others before him have experienced. The aforementioned conviction has to do with the sparse representation he had during the recent National APC Convention. While others had delegates in droves, Adelabu reportedly had no one. The question that some kind-hearted people are consequently asking is how Adelabu expects to contest against an incumbent governor, one as clever as Seyi Makinde for that matter, and win. But Adelabu may have something in the works that might allow him to level the playing field in the coming Oyo gubernatorial elections. After all, he has been getting close to some of the powerbrokers in the state, including the circle of the late former Governor of Oyo, Abiola Ajimobi. Eyebrows were even raised when Adelabu shared the dancefloor with Ajimobi’s widow, Lady Florence. So, all may not be lost for Adelabu. However, it sure looks like there is no place for him in the APC in Oyo. Moreover, isn’t Senator Teslim Folarin at the helm of affairs in the state’s party office now? And isn’t Folarin rumoured to be interested in the governorship seat? All in all, it is not at all looking good for Adelabu.