 Bennett  Oghifo It is the most powerful customer sports car ever to have been developed by Mercedes‑AMG: the Mercedes‑AMG GT Track Series, conceptualised for use during track days and club sport events. The automaker said with the exclusive limited edition, the Mercedes‑AMG motorsport department is celebrating the 55th anniversary of the Affalterbach-based company in a very special way. Limited to 55 units, the Mercedes AMG GT Track Series is the spiritual bridge to AMG founders Hans Werner Aufrecht and Erhard Melcher and their philosophy: making the best even better yet. The result is an uncompromised and exclusive performance car that is reflecting the automotive constructors’ art of Mercedes-AMG in a unique way. New Mercedes‑AMG GT Track Series limited to 55 units Most powerful customer sports car ever to be developed by Mercedes‑AMG Extension of der AMG portfolio by an exclusive member for track days and club sport events The Mercedes‑AMG GT Track Series is extending the GT legacy by a new iconic model. The legendary top performer Mercedes AMG GT Black Series (combined fuel consumption 12.8 l/100 km, combined CO2 emission 292 g/km)[1] served as the basis for the development. Like the latter model, the GT Track Series stands out for its vehicle concept aimed at top-level performance, combining it with the racetrack-proven qualities of the GT3 and GT4 models. Ineligible for road use approval, the GT Track Series additionally underlines its high exclusivity by means of numerous unique technical and visual features. Fascinating performance offer The heart of the Mercedes‑AMG GT Track Series is the 4.0 litre V8 biturbo engine from the Mercedes‑AMG GT Black Series, the engineers from Affalterbach having enhanced its impressive performance figures even further. For instance, thanks to custom motorsport injectors and a specific engine application, the power unit equipped with a flat crankshaft now delivers 540 kW (734 hp) and a maximum torque of 850 Nm. The sequential Hewland HLS 6-speed racing gearbox with adjustable differential transfers the power to the rear axle. Like in all the models from the GT family, it has been installed on the rear axle in transaxle configuration and has a torsion and torque resistant connection to the engine by means of a carbon fibre torque tube. The suspension of the Mercedes‑AMG GT Track Series features comprehensively adjustable four-way Bilstein dampers. As is common in motorsport, they each have a high-speed and low-speed setting in the rebound and compression levels and additionally allow for adjustments of the ride height. In addition, the anti-roll bars are individually adjustable to ensure an individual setup. In their combination with the underlying car concept, these high-performance components result into a highly precise handling with unmistakable feedback. This allows drivers of all skill levels, be it racing professionals or gentlemen drivers, to quickly build up confidence in the vehicle. Optimised aerodynamics combined with a powerful design The design and the aerodynamics of the Mercedes‑AMG GT Track Series strictly follow the performance philosophy as well. The bonnet, wings, sills, back door and the rear apron are made of carbon fibre and largely contribute to the high driving dynamics. Another important effect of the material mix is the reduction of the kerb weight of the vehicle to 1,400 kg. The integrated louvres of the carbon wing on the front axle provide a higher downforce. The sills with elements of black visible carbon, transitioning into vertical blades both at the front and the rear, significantly contribute to an optimal airflow around the vehicle. To ensure an effective cooling of the rear brakes, the sills also incorporate cooling air ducts. The rear apron with double diffuser and lateral wheel arch air outlets also refers to the racing DNA of the Mercedes‑AMG GT Track Series. The front of the exclusive model is characterised by the AMG specific sporty radiator grille, which ensures optimum air flow to the radiator. The high-downforce front splitter was developed exclusively for the GT Track Series. It is complemented by a modified, mechanically adjustable racing rear wing that is based on the aero element of the GT Black Series. It was further developed to improve the downforce on the rear axle. Another direct motorsport derivative is the exclusive characteristic bonnet with large air outlet. It guides the hot air from the engine bay, increases the overall downforce while contributing to the cooling of the engine at the same time. Another special development for the Mercedes‑AMG GT Track Series are the exclusive high-sheen milled and forged 18 inch wheels, the usual wheel rim size for GT race cars. All the usual competition tyre types can be used. A special optical highlight is the exclusive semi-gloss special finish in MANUFAKTUR hightech silver magno with design elements in red and anthracite. Another highlight that emphasises the exclusivity of this GT model is the integration of the AMG emblem in the upper area of the front apron. Comprehensive safety package and motorsport specific interior Like in the GT3 and the GT4, user and service friendly racing electronics have been installed in the GT Track Series as well. They include a racing specific traction control and a motorsport ABS, each adjustable across 12 levels (level 1: maximum TC/ABS activity, level 11: minimum TC/ABS activity, level 12: off-mode). The brake components are motorsport-proven as well. The GT Track Series comes with steel brakes (front axle: 390 mm/rear axle 355 mm). A brake beam has been installed for adjusting the brake balance. The carbon brake air ducts and the dimensionally stable brake air lines guarantee optimal cooling of the performance brake system in the process. Proven within the GT family, the safety concept has been applied in the interior: the roll cage of high-tensile steel is bolted to the aluminium space frame and an extrication hatch has been placed in the roof. The carbon driver safety cell has large dimensions and is even offering tall drivers sufficient room to move. Moreover, it as a five-point safety harness and a customisable ergonomic seat foaming. As a result, the driver safety cell meets the latest FIA standards and is offering a considerably higher protection level than usual race seats. A powerful motorsport fire extinguisher system and driver safety nets complement the comprehensive safety concept of the GT Track Series. During the design process of the interior, the Mercedes‑AMG engineers have paid particular attention to the purpose of the vehicle: the GT Track Series has been assembled as a thoroughbred motorsport vehicle and therefore does without any comfort elements. To achieve the 1,400 kg kerb weight, the search for any components like padding materials, interior fairing or electric windows is in vain. The steering wheel, exclusively developed for the GT Track Series in cooperation with the sim racing experts at Cube Controls, has a wide adjustment range and numerous control opportunities. The pedals can also be adjusted and can be individually adapted to the driver’s physique. The dashboard with visible carbon and a matt finish includes a fully programmable BOSCH DDU 11 Driver Display Unit, designed for intuitive operation and user-friendliness. Moreover, it incorporates a comprehensive data logging system for motorsport purposes, for instance a lap trigger to keep track of lap times. The GT Track Series is one of the first cars around to feature the newly developed system. 55 years of Mercedes-AMG – 55 Mercedes-AMG GT Track Series The Mercedes‑AMG GT Track Series stands for maximum exclusivity. The special series is limited to 55 units, each of them built by hand in Affalterbach. Thus, Mercedes‑AMG reminisces about the founding of the company by Hans Werner Aufrecht and Erhard Melcher in the year 1967, exactly 55 years ago. A high-quality embossed “1 of 55” plaque in the interior identifies every Mercedes‑AMG GT Track Series as a unique piece from the special edition. The “Track Series” embroidered writings on the driver’s seat and on the limited car cover also refer to the exclusivity of the GT Track Series. Comprehensive service and support included Mercedes‑AMG GT Track Series owners benefit from a comprehensive service and support range that is continually being developed and expanded. It also includes such privileges that normally are exclusive to the Mercedes‑AMG Motorsport customer teams: a technical training prior to delivery of the vehicle, individual engineer support during track days and club sport activities upon request, a service hot line during race weekends as well as logistical services such as a optimal spare parts supply. Technical support is guaranteed by the motorsport experts at HWA AG, carrying out services and rebuilds as Mercedes‑AMG’s development and production partner. The exclusive online-based ordering and information system “Customer Service Portal” is in place for ordering accessories and spare parts as well as providing all technical documentation. Direct sales from Affalterbach Worldwide sales of the Mercedes‑AMG GT Track Series is being handled from Affalterbach where Mercedes‑AMG has its headquarters. Customer delivery of the special edition starts in the second quarter of 2022. The list price of the Mercedes‑AMG GT Track Series including air conditioning is € 369,000 plus VAT. A spare parts starter set, a seat and helmet ventilation system, a drinking system and a passenger safety cell are available as options. Further equipment options are available upon request.