 Emma Okonji and Becky Uba Umenyili The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) at the weekend lamented the rate of cybercrime in Nigeria, saying it had contributed significantly to discouraging foreign investors from doing business in Nigeria due to fear of being duped. Consequently, the anti-graft agency challenged the youths to avoid all negative vices, including cybercrime. EFCC Zonal Commander, Lagos Zone, Mr. Ahmed Ghali expressed this concern while speaking against drug abuse and Internet fraud at a youth seminar, organised by the Catholic Women Organisation of the Archdiocese of Lagos. The zonal commander, represented by a Commanding Officer at EFCC, Mr. Ayo Oyewale, said the current rate of internet fraud “is gearing towards the ratio of one culprit in every family and the perpetrators are becoming more daring and undaunted in their criminal schemes.” He further noted that cybercrime had been heightened in recent times by the development of more Internet services that seek to cater for the e-technological needs of the society. He said computer fraud, phone hacking and theft of credit cards had been on the rise, warning youths and everyone “to beware of those who wish to use their accounts to transact business, because reports have proven that mist of such proxy-related businesses are fraudulent.” Ghali said the EFCC would collaborate with other security agents in the country and the International Police (Interpol) “to monitor and intercept criminal activities, and bring those involved to book.” He encouraged youths “to feel free to report to the EFCC any suspected fraud to prevent its menace.” In her paper titled Drug Abuse and its Impact on Youth Development, the Deputy Director, Drug Demand Reduction Division of the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC), Mrs. Clara Anyanwu, highlighted the numerous causes of drug abuse and addictions and their monstrous effects in the lives of the victims, their families and the society at large. She called on youths to embrace entrepreneurial skills that could keep them busy and off mischief and idleness. She also encouraged parents, the church and various government bodies, to organise more educational programmes to enlighten youths and indeed the public in general on the dangers of drug abuse. In his remark, another facilitator at the programme, Rev. Fr. Simeon Martin, encouraged youths to be open and free on their communication so as to prevent chances of social dangers.