After his exploits at the 2015 U-17 World Cup in Chile where he was voted as the tournament’s best player, earning him a move to Premier League giants- Arsenal, many believed the Super Eagles had been guaranteed an emerging talent but it was not to be as Kelechi Nwakali’s senior national team dream was looking like a mirage. His dream eventually came to pass when he was invited for the last AFCON in Cameroon. The trip to the central African country turned out sour for the attacking midfield as he was sacked by his Spanish club- SD Huesca, for  returning late after participating in the biennial competition Kelechi Nwakali at a stage got so frustrated when erstwhile Super Eagles Manager, Gernot Rohr, did not look in his direction that his agent and brother, Allwell claimed he would be changing nationality. Allwell the elder brother of Nigerian attacking midfielder had claimed then those other nations had approached the player over a possible switch of international allegiance. Allwell had explained that his brother has Nigeria in his heart, but will consider all offers put to him by other nations. “Some agents of foreign countries have approached Kelechi for a switch of allegiance so he would play for their national teams,” the elder Nwakali had said then. “Well, I cannot confirm if he has given it a consideration because I know his wish to play for the Super Eagles. He is still studying the proposals and has yet to take a decision.” But the former Arsenal man quickly denied it. Writing on his Twitter he said: “Contrary to reports circulating in the media, I remain committed to serving my country. “It is always an honour to wear the green of Nigeria and it is my dream to continue to do so. I categorically deny these reports and will continue to work hard until I am called upon. “I am hugely proud to have represented Nigeria at various levels and am grateful to have had these opportunities in my career thus far. “I have never considered playing for another nation and continuing to play for Nigeria at international level remains my priority and my dream.” Nwakali, however, got his opportunity to play for the senior national team when he was listed in the Nigerian side that campaigned at the last Africa Cup of Nations in Cameroon. Due to illness, Kelechi returned to his Spanish club and his contract was terminated by his act. Nwakali has shared his side of the story after his contract with SD Huesca was unilaterally terminated by the LaLiga 2 club on Tuesday. He has expressed his displeasure about the way he was treated by Huesca before he parted company with the club, saying he was made to train on his own, was not allowed to use the facilities or receive treatment from the club’s physios, was not paid his wages and they tried to bully him into signing a new contract. On the final day of the January transfer window, SD Huesca attempted to get the former Golden Eaglets and Flying Eagles captain off their wage bill by offloading him to Burgos CF but the move did not eventually happen. Nwakali believes his problems with Huesca started after he attended the 2021 Africa Cup of Nations in January against the club’s wishes. The ASJ Academy product has insisted that the leadership of the Azulgranas disrespected Nigeria as a country and labelled the Africa Cup of Nations an unimportant tournament. Nwakali was involved in all the three matches played by the Super Eagles during the group stage of AFCON 2021 but was omitted from the matchday squad in the round of 16 clash against Tunisia after he was diagnosed with a respiratory tract infection. Writing on Instagram on Wednesday, Nwakali stated : “In December 2021 I experienced the biggest honour of my life after I received a full international call up for my beloved Nigeria. “But the joy of the moment quickly came crashing down when the club’s sporting director Ruben Garcia put extreme pressure on me not to go to AFCON due to it not being an important tournament. “He told me that if I go to AFCON I will not play for Huesca again. “This behaviour and the lack of respect shown to my country Nigeria was truly heartbreaking  and it was just the latest example of the club attempting to bully me into getting their own way.” Nwakali is departing Huesca, whom he joined from Arsenal in 2019, after making 33 appearances in all competitions. The second-tier outfit announced it had terminated Nwakali’s deal, which was due to expire at the end of this season, on Tuesday but did not give a reason for the decision. Nwakali’s final appearance for the club had come against Girona on January 2 before he departed for international duty. “All I want to do is get back to playing the sport I love,” Nwakali added Meanwhile, Spanish players’ union has announced that it will challenge in court the “unilateral” dismissal of the 23-year-old by SD Huesca. The players’ union AFA Futbol stated in an official statement on Tuesday that the labour rights of Super Eagles midfielder were violated by the club. SD Huesca terminated Nwakali’s  contract after he played at the Africa Cup of Nations against the Spanish club’s wishes and he then turned down a transfer in January. Nwakali alleges Huesca Sporting Director, Ruben Garcia, pressured him not to join the Super Eagles squad for January’s Nations Cup and that the club had been “abusing its power” in an attempt to force him to sign a new contract, including failing to pay his wages on time. Huesca “completely deny and disagree with the player’s accusations” and say they will defend themselves in court if required. “The club has acted at all times with the utmost respect for the player,” a Huesca statement said. “Given the seriousness of some of the statements made, the club reserves the exercise of any actions it deems appropriate in defence of its legitimate rights and interests.” The midfielder burst into the limelight in the 2015 U-17 World Cup where helped Nigeria win the title, scooping the Golden Ball award of the tournament in the process. He has also played for the U-20. Born on June 5, 1998, Nwakali started his career at the Diamond Football Academy and after his performances at 2015 FIFA U-17 World Cup, where he won the Golden Ball Award, culminating English Premier League side, Arsenal to go for his signature.