 Adams Abonu pays tribute to Sonny Echono, executive secretary, TETFundWhile public service is often perceived as an opportunity to serve the purpose of government as it relates to providing essential services to those being governed, there are those within the space that finds itas a viable avenue to leave enduring examples. A brief reflection on the history of public service in Nigeria is replete with individuals who brought on board raw character and distinguished themselves in the line of public duty. The names of Chief Jerome Udoji, renowned public servant of the ‘’Udoji Award’’ fame; Simeon Adebo; Alilu Akilu; Joseph Imoukkhuede, and other sterling examples heralded a golden era for public service in Nigeria.In recent times, some reputable public servants emerged within the public service space who showed adequate commitment to institutional reforms viz-a-viz efficient service delivery. The likes of Ambassador Abu Obe, erstwhile Head of Service of the federation; Professor Tunji Olaopa, a retired permanent secretary and sound intellectual who left indelible footprints in calling national attention to reforms in the public sector; Dr. Sam Abah of the Bureau of Public Service Reforms (BPSR), and more.Enter Mr. Sonny Echono. Suffice to say that the trajectory ofthe renowned public administrator is a testament to the convergence of personal character, administrative acumen and historical dynamics that makes Echono a doyen of public service in Nigeria. Born on December 16, 1962 in Otukpo, Benue State, Echono had his earliesteducation at the St. Mary’s Primary School in Otukpo before proceeding to Jos, where he completed his primary and secondary education at St. Theresa’s Primary School and St. Murumba’s Secondary School respectively. Echono was the best graduating student of his set. Hewas later to enrol for his A-Level at Murtala Collegeof Arts, Sciences and Technology in Makurdi. In 1980, Echono wasadmitted into the prestigious Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria to studyArchitecture and graduated with Master’s degreein 1985.Echono joined the Benue State Housing Agency upon completion of his National Youths Service in 1986 briefly before joining the federalcivil service in 1987 where a sterling career spanning close to 35years begun in earnest. Within this period, Echono served in variouscapacities in the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing including asSecretary, Implementation Committee on National Housing Policy-1991 to 1995; Secretary, Special projects Task Force, 1992-1995; Secretary, Committee on Lands and Housing,1993-1995; Special Assistant toPermanent Secretary,1994-1999; head, Council Affairs and Parastatal, 2003/04; Secretary, Ministerial Tenders Board,2004 – 2005.When the idea of procurement reforms was revitalized within the public sector at the twilight of the President Jonathan administration, Echono’s experience came handy as he was among the first civil servants assigned to the Budget Monitoring and Price Intelligence Unit, popularly known as Due Process Office in February 2015.Not one to rest on his oars in his quest for personal development,Echono went on to acquire a Post Graduate Diploma in Management (PGDM) from University of Calabar in 2002; Mater of Business Administration (MBA) from Benue State University in 2004; Master of Science, Procurement Management from University of Turin in Italy in 2011.His sound knowledge of the procurement process earned him top spots as Director of Procurement in several federal ministries including Defence, Water Resources, Environment, Agriculture and Power.His elevation to the position of permanent secretary in the federalcivil service in October 2014 was in recognition of his shiningperformances in his earlier postings. Echono went on to serve in theministries of Agriculture and Rural Development (2014-2015);Communications (2015-2017) and Education (2017-2022). In thesecapacities, the refined public servant brought the core aspect of hischaracter to bear as he distinguished himself in service tofatherland.Mr. Echono also contributed in no mean feat to the developmentof architecture in Nigeria. Beginning as secretary of theAdmissions Committee in 1991, he rose through the professional ranks to be elected as president of the Nigerian Institute of Architects in November 2019, a position he judiciously manages till date.This thoroughbred public servant attended several management courses at top notch institutions across the globe including the Oxford and Cambridge universities in the UK; the Japan institute of Development Studies and at the reputable Harvard Business School in America.Upon his retirement from civil service in January 2022, PresidentBuhari, who obviously appreciates the Echono brand of distinction and integrity, picked him to be the Executive Secretary of the TertiaryEducation Trust Fund (TETFUND). For a man who administered thebehemoth called federal ministry of education with various agenciesand parastatals including TETFUND, he understandably is adept with the requirement of his new assignment.He hit the ground running upon his assumption of office by declaring that his dispensation would focus on curriculum delivery systems in schools, adding that this would make graduates from tertiary institutions more relevant not just in employability but in job creation. Information and Communications Technology (ICT) would also be accorded a right of place to improve curriculum development with focus on human infrastructure at TETFUND in this new dispensation.‘’We have done so well in physical infrastructure and we will continue to do so but we also must focus on those we entrusted with the evaluation of our students. We must focus on the type of curriculum that is being taught and thedelivery system,’’ he declared upon taking dutiesfrom his predecessor.As a funding agency, the role of TETFUND in the quality of tertiaryeducation in Nigeria cannot be overemphasised. How the interventionfunds would be judiciously utilized to achieve desired objectives atthe face of dwindling revenues would be another testimony to thestrength of character and unblemished antecedents of the new executive secretary. There is no doubt that Echono would justify theconfidence reposed in him.Abonu, a public affairs consultant, writes from Asokoro, Abuja