 Segun James A presidential aspirant of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Udom Emmanuel yesterday said the drive for industrialisation in Lagos State would jump-start the economy of Nigeria. Udom, a governor of Akwa Ibom, canvassed a special status for Lagos, promising that under his leadership, he will pursue policies that will make the Lagos economy to blossom. He made these remarks yesterday when he visited a former PDP Deputy National Chairman, Chief Olabode George, saying the development of Lagos economy would have a multiplier effect on the economy of the country. Udom stormed Lagos as part of his consultation and mobilisation tour of PDP chapters nationwide. He visited George, and other chieftains to solicit their support for his ambition. He was accompanied by Senator Gabriel Suswan, former governor of Benue State, Col. Habib Shuaibu, his campaign manager, and Information Commissioner Ini Ememobong. Addressing the state’s party leaders yesterday, Udom said Lagos, as the former federal capital, deserved good federal attention like its counterparts across the globe. Udom promised to stimulate the private sector for economic growth, explaining how he had administered Akwa Ibom and established Ibom Airline, which had acquired the reputation for being the best airline in the country. The presidential aspirant said there could only be good governance when things are done rightly, urging the party to settle for tested contenders, saying he had attracted direct foreign investment by creating a conducive enabling environment in Akwa Ibom. He pointed out that Akwa Ibom “is next to Lagos on the list of foreign direct investment in Nigeria. The country should rekindle hope about a brighter future to stem the brain drain syndrome among youths.” Udom described himself as a man of immense capacity and integrity, promising “to strengthen the naira through economic revival that will reposition the country.” He maintained that Lagos “is critical to the economic growth of Nigeria. A coastal transportation system for Lagos will further expand the economic prosperity, not only of Lagos, but Nigeria as a whole. “Industrialisation drive for Lagos will jump-start Nigeria’s economy and strengthen the naira,” the presidential aspirant explained at the meeting with Lagos PDP leaders. The aspirant thanked George for his nationalistic roles, saying that only a competent leadership can resolve the complex problems confronting the country. He said the next president should have a great understanding of the economy, explaining the need for professionals to go into politics to fix the country. George, who welcomed the governor and his team, spoke on the importance of Lagos as the commercial hub and a hospitable centre for all. Suswan explained the mission to Lagos PDP leaders, saying Udom attached value to the chieftains.