 Diamond Development Initiatives, a development service organisation, has appointed a new member to its Board of Trustees, Halima Bawa-Bwari. A statement signed by the organisation’s Communications Specialist, Lucky Ihanza disclosed that Bawa-Bwari is currently the Acting Director, Department of Climate Change, Federal Ministry of Environment. She brings to the table her rich experience in nature conservation, climate change resilience and climate finance issues including the green climate fund and the green bonds. According to DDI’s Board Chair, Dr Lydia Umar, the organisation prides itself in appointing service-oriented, and development-focused individuals who are committed to the ideals and mission of the organisation. “As an organisation, we have a mission to provide equitable opportunity for self-actualisation through economic empowerment and sustainable livelihood initiatives. That’s what drives the selection of our team members. So, it’s our honour to welcome our new Board member to DDI,” says Umar. The Executive Director, Mr. Adamu Garba, added that with Halima on board, the organisation has continued its tradition of ensuring a rich and formidable blend of a diversity of experience and sectors towards achieving DDI’s mission. Established in 2002, DDI is a not-for-profit organisation that provides technical and programmatic support in the implementation of various development initiatives. The NGO, which will be celebrating its 20th anniversary in November 2022, also has as Board of Trustees Members seasoned professionals including Umar (Board Chair), a gender and women’s rights expert and a development worker; Prof. Abdullahi Bala (Board Vice-Chairman) a professor of Soil Science and Vice-Chancellor of the Federal University of Technology, Minna; and Hajiya Aisha Abubakar, a passionate health-focused development professional. Others are Princess Ebunoluwa Oladunni, an economist and Managing Director/CEO of Starcrest Investment Nigeria Limited – an investment consulting firm; Barrister Bashir Hamis (Board Secretary) who currently serves as an Assistant Director and Head, Quality Assurance Unit of Nigeria’s Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS), and Mr. Adamu Garba, the Executive Director.