To enhanced safe practices around Water Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH)among students in Northeast schools, Jose Foundation UK, anindependent child-centred not-for-profit organisation has commencedsensitisation campaign targeting secondary schools in Borno State. Jose Foundation UK in a statement yesterday signed by its president,Dr Martins Abhulimhen, said the foundation is committed to eradicatingextreme poverty, advancing children’s rights, and ensuring girl childequality across the globe. The statement noted that the foundation is currently implementing aglobal sensitisation aimed at creating awareness and ensuring safepractices around Water Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) in a bid toaddress the global pandemic arising from COVID-19. In Borno State, the organisation held the sensitisation programme atMuhammadu Buhari Academy, a mega boarding school in MaiduguriMetropolitan Council (MMC) where students were sensitised on thesymptoms of COVID-19 and the prevention measures to observe within andoutside their learning environment. The statement read: “The first phase of the global sensitisationcampaign targets public schools to ensure children are aware of, andequipped with the basic knowledge to protect themselves from thecoronavirus and also carry-out the basic WASH practices to stay safe. “The organisation observed that during the peak of the COVID-19pandemic, government enforced closure of schools in an attempt toreduce the spread of the disease. “Schools in fragile contexts remain at particular risk of notre-opening, or re-opening with inadequate sanitation facilities andpsychosocial support for students. Studies have also shown that girlsare less likely to return to school after a period of absence,especially girls in conflict affected regions. “Even though the wave of the pandemic has reduced, and government haverelaxed the restrictions, an assessment conducted by Jose FoundationUK programme team in the Northeast shows poor or non-adherence tobasic COVID-19 prevention measures especially within public schools. “It is on this premise that the Foundation has not relented in itsefforts to ensure that children, especially girls in Northeast Nigeriaare supported with the necessary COVID-19 awareness and prevention andbasic Water Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) sensitization to ensure thatthey stay safe and protected within their learning environment.” The foundation further stated that the sensitisation campaign seeks toaddress the poor prevention practices observed across some Governmentschools in conflict affected North-eastern States of Borno and Yobe asregards to COVID-19 prevention and general Water, Sanitation andHygiene practices. Recall that the organisation had earlier conducted the COVID-19sensitisation in Government Girls Secondary School, Damaturu, YobeState. The students were sensitised on the symptoms of COVID-19 and theprevention measures to observe within and outside their learningenvironment. The facilitator also trained the school girls onhandwashing and safe use of latrines in their schools to preventtransmission of infections. Jose Foundation UK team led by Ms Joy Otuonye donated facemasks,washing soaps, disinfectants and other PPEs to the school girls aswell as to the school management. The foundation hoped that through this sensitisation and distributionof these items to students and the school, the students and theirteachers will be able to improve on their personal protection andhygiene. In appreciation of the support to the school, headmistress, MuhammaduBuhari Academy, Maiduguri, Hajia Amina Mustapha Haruna, appreciatedthe leadership of Jose Foundation UK for selecting the school for thecampaign. She noted that the sensitisation was lifesaving and critical for thesafety of the children and also noted that the items will also be usedto strengthen the WASH practices in the school. Jose Foundation UK said it will continue to prioritise the campaign aswell as support school systems especially in conflict affectedNortheast with WASH facilities to further improve access to safe andhygienic facilities.