 Chuks Okocha and Emameh Gabriel in Abuja Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello yesterday officially declared his intention to run for president in the 2023 general elections with a promise to tackle the country’s security challenges. Bello made the declaration at an elaborate ceremony at Eagle Square, Abuja, noting that the 2023 presidential election is vital to the country’s survival. He also promised that he would have a target of creating at least 20 million millionaires by 2030, saying he would adopt the apprenticeship system, popular in the Southeast in empowering youths in the country in various sectors. He said he was passionate enough about the country to fight for the privilege of leading it to prosperity, noting that if elected, he would replicate the efforts to check insecurity and restore peace in Kogi across the country. According to him, it is imperative that the next president of the country be a young person, noting that he would be 47 in June this year adding that he is mentally and physically fit for the job. Bello also said the next president must be able to manage the country’s diversity for the people’s benefit, adding that he would emphasise the citizenship of the country over indigeneship if elected into office. He said: “If he is successful, he would run an administration that would be inclusive of women, youths and every segment of society, adding that Nigerians must be able to live and work anywhere in the country without any issues. Promising fairness, equity and justice for all, he added that he would ensure that Nigerians are empowered and made to believe they are not inferior to anyone in the world. Bello said: “I wish to declare my intention to run for president of Nigeria in the 2023 general elections. I will be doing so under the platform of the All Progressives Congress. I will be running on the broad political philosophy of progressive activism through social action and political reforms. “We are so blessed as a nation yet it does not seem so. I am running to restore hope by providing a firm guarantee of security, unity and progress to all Nigerians. The focus would be proper management of our great diversities so it can be an advantage. We would foster more cooperation and integration among citizens and make progress steadily across all sectors and indicators.” Director-General of the Bello Presidential campaign team, Hasfat Abiola-Costello, said it was time for Nigerians to take their destiny in their hands and vote for a president that would ensure they get their due. Bello picked Abiola-Costello, daughter of the presumed winner of the June 1993 presidential election, late Moshood Abiola, to lead his presidential campaign organisation. Also, the Director General of the M.K.O. Abiola Campaign Organisation and former Senate Deputy Leader, Jonathan Zwingina, has been named the national coordinator of the Bello Presidential Campaign Organisation as well as a former Aviation Minister, Femi Fani-Kayode, as Deputy National Coordinator.