 As the primaries of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) draw near, a frontline governorship aspirant in Abia State, Mayo Lucky Igbokwe, has continued to receive blessings of stakeholders in the state. Igbokwe’s chances of grabbing the Abia PDP governorship ticket are looking up as the federal lawmaker representing Abia Central at the National Assembly, Senator Theodore Orji, the immediate past governor of Abia State, vowed to stop at nothing in ensuring that the forthcoming primaries of the ruling the PDP will be free and fair. He made the vow when Igbokwe, fondly called Don Lulu by admirers, came to consult with him in his Umuahia country home. The former governor promised not to renege in his responsibility as an elder statesman to ensure that level playing ground was provided for all the contestants at the PDP primaries. Orji encouraged the governorship hopeful to make wider consultations in his bid to actualise his ambition, adding that nobody can stop him from becoming Governor in 2023 “if it is God’s will”. Speaking earlier, Igbokwe said he visited the former governor to seek his fatherly blessing on his ambition as courtesy demanded. According to him, his decision to join the governorship race was borne out of his passion to reinvent the state and realise the dreams of the founding fathers. He said his intention was to transform Abia State through Information Communication Technology (ICT) and entertainment industry. The governorship hopeful said he was well prepared to make Abia the pride of the Igbo man, adding that his administration will rebuild infrastructure across the state and open up the state for foreign direct investment. Igbokwe’s governorship ambition received further boost as the Ohuhu Traditional Rulers Council has promised to support his gubernatorial ambition. At a meeting held at the palace of the Chairman of the Ohuhu Traditional Rulers Council, HRH Eze Nnamdi Ofoegbu, the Diawa of Umudiawa, the elated monarchs appreciated the businessman and philanthropist for the courage to run for the highest office in the state. They prayed for the businessman and called on the spirits of the founding fathers of the clan to protect and guide their son. Eze Ofoegbu poured libation in agreement with other monarchs who pledged to support his aspiration of being the next governor of Abia State. The monarchs described Igbokwe as a worthy son who has impacted the lives of many not just in Ohuhu but in Abia State as a whole. Mayor Igbokwe thanked the traditional rulers for the blessings and confidence reposed on him. He promised to be a worthy ambassador of Ohuhu just like Premier of Eastern Region, late Dr. M.I. Okpara, the political patriarch of the Ohuhu clan. He promised to replicate in Abia the developmental roadmap of Dr. Okpara that led to the development of the defunct Eastern region. He vowed to revamp the moribund industries, and create employment for the teeming youth population in the state. According to him, his government will ensure regular and timely payment of workers’ salaries as well as payment of  the  statutory allocation due to traditional rulers to enable them maintain peace in their domain. “I will also  provide health insurance for the  elderly  which women from 55 and men at 60 years in the state will enjoy free of charge,” he added.