 Udora Orizu in Abuja The Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) has faulted the suggestion by the Majority Leader of the House of Representatives Hon. Alhassan Ado-Doguwa, that Nigerians should be allowed to bear arms to defend themselves from terrorists.Following the recent terrorists attacks on Kaduna airport and train, the lawmakers at the plenary, last week expressed serious concerns over the worsening insecurity in the country. Ado-Doguwa (APC, Kano) had alluded that the federal government has failed to live up to expectations of the citizens with the everyday massacre being experienced in the country, saying that citizens should be allowed to bear arms to defend themselves. But, CUPP Spokesman, Ikenga Ugochinyere speaking on Arise TV, the morning show said the suggestion by the House leader if implemented will lead to anarchy and worsen an already bad situation.Ugochinyere said APC lawmakers should leave politics aside, stop playing to the gallery and call on President Muhammadu Buhari to sit up and address the insecurity bedeviling the country.He said, “Doguwa is one of the leaders in the parliament, he has been there, approved all the budgetary allocations of the government and security agencies, and they know who to blame. They don’t want to tell Buhari the real truth, that as the commander in chief of the armed forces you have a constitutional responsibility. APC members don’t want to leave politics aside and call their president to order and say what’s the problem? If it’s the service chiefs, finances let us know so we can find a way to provide you the needed logistics. There’s no way the citizens can be called to take up arms to protect themselves, it will lead to anarchy. If you do that you are going to worsen the already bad situation.”Speaking on the Federal Government’s blame on the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) for being responsible for the bad situation the country is in, Ugochinyere advised the ruling party not to politicize what’s going on currently in the country, saying that the blame game and rhetorics are worsening the situation.The CUPP Spokesman while pointing out that all the major actors who were part of the 16 years of PDP are in APC currently, said Buhari should consider the country’s security situation as a matter of urgent national importance by mobilizing the security forces from all angle to storm those forests to neutralize these terrorists and avert future occurrence.“Any government that can’t secure lives and property have no reason being in power. And talking about 16 years of PDP rule at a time of national emergency, when bandits and terrorists are rampaging all parts of the country, there’s no sixteen years to account for because all the major actors who were part of the 16 years we are talking about is in APC currently. Governor of Kano State, Minister of labour, minister of transport and so on were all part of that PDP 16 year rule. The man they made national secretary, Omisore is part of that 16 years he’s talking about. So they should stop talking about that 16 years because they were all part of it. They should go and ask their members what happened in that 16 years. “We shouldn’t politicize what’s going on currently in the country. If the government said it’s the handwork of the opposition that means they know the people behind it, then as a responsible government you should go after those people, whether they are in the opposition or ruling government and arrest them. It’s unfortunate that President Muhammadu Buhari is not even listening to the statement of his party members, like the governor of kaduna state, Nasir Elrufai who said the situation is getting out of hand and he’s thinking of hiring mercenaries. He should understand the fact that what we should be looking at is how to find solutions. People are being killed in all parts of the country, these armed groups are having so much courage. Something is wrong, we need to come together across party lines and find a way to solve this issue,” Ugochinyere added