 *Says Ango Abdulahi acted in individual capacity Adedayo Akinwale The  Northern Elders Forum (NEF) has clarified that it was not involved in the entire process that led to the purported emergence of the former Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki and Bauchi State Governor, Bala Mohammed as the  consensus candidate of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) from the North. Recall that Prof. Ango Abdulahi had in a statement said Saraki and Mohammed had emerged as consensus candidates of PDP from the North ahead of the party’s primary. But, the Director, Publicity and Advocacy of the group, Dr. Hakeem Baba-Ahmed insisted that the forum was not affiliated to any political party or aspirant. The forum explained that the  idea to engineer a consensus among the aspirants was that of the aspirants themselves, including  Governor Aminu Tambuwal, Mohammed, Saraki and Malam Mohammed Hayatudeen. It noted that the aspirants  had informed former President Badamasi Babangida of their intention, and requested elderly intervention and advice in the event that their efforts failed to produce consensus. The forum stressed that President Babangida in turn requested  Abdullahi in his individual capacity to design and manage a process that could improve a consensus agreement among the four aspirants. The forum added that Abdullahi concluded that assignment and released a detailed report and recommendation, signing it in his individual capacity. It stated: “It is important to make clear that the entire process did not involve the Northern Elders Forum as a group, and is not a product of the group. “It has become necessary to address the impression created in part by mischief, and in part by genuine confusion over the role of the Convener of Northern Elders Forum, in the efforts to create consensus among four aspirants for the Presidential ticket of the PDP.” The forum noted that Abdullahi was free to undertake any lawful activity as a citizen, and genuine misinterpretations of his role are understandable. It added: “Northern Elders Forum is not affiliated to any political party or aspirant, and is strongly committed to the creation of a level playing field which will allow the emergence of the best leaders in the 2023 elections.” The forum said it had also remained consistent in its conviction that all parts of the country should play their parts freely, unhindered by restrictions which offend principles of inclusion and fairness. The Forum stressed that it  believes the North had excellent candidates whose fate should be left to party delegates and voters to decide. It noted that it  remained united behind the protection and projection of interests of the North and Nigeria, and will play its role as it had done whenever circumstances demanded.