 In the last few editions we have been talking about Vaginitis, explaining the types, causes, signs and symptoms, complications and prevention. This week, we will conclude with diagnosis and treatment. DIAGNOSIS OF VAGINITIS The most appropriate individual to discuss the symptoms and probable causes of Vaginitis is the Clinician. The symptoms noticed will determine if one has vaginitis or not. Tests are to  be perform to determine the type and  cause of vaginitis as it is possible to have one or more types co-occurring. There are various precipitating factors that can induce vaginitis, each of which must be treated separately. The clinician will first diagnose before   prescribing the most appropriate treatment. This usually involves the following procedures: TREATMENT OF VAGINITIS The physician’s treatment strategy will be determined by the origin of the illness, medical history and products you may be consuming. However it may involve the following: To limit the chance of recurrence, effective vaginitis treatment may include screening and treating your sexual partner(s).To treat the illness in adolescents, adequate cleanliness, antibacterial medicine, and steroids may be administered. Infections in pre-pubescent girls, on the other hand, resolve on their own throughout puberty as a result of hormonal changes and the regulation of vaginal pH by vaginal discharge. CONCLUSION Vaginitis is a common female condition for which therapy is readily available. Vaginitis, like most infections and conditions, has distinct symptoms that can be quite unpleasant. As a result, it is critical to pay attention to your body, recognize the symptoms, and get medical help as soon as possible to begin treatment. The ultimate goal of vaginitis prevention is to avoid it, but this requires careful attention to certain details, such as maintaining a healthy lifestyle and making wise sexual decisions. Also, keep in mind that certain clothing and beauty products may include irritating substances that disrupt the vaginal hormonal balance. As a result, paying attention to these aspects may aid in the prevention of this condition. Childbearing women, on the other hand, should take extra precautions because they are more prone to vaginitis-related issues, which can endanger their pregnancy. It is advisable to visit the physician if the symptoms persist despite receiving the proper care and treatment.