* He made huge impact across Nigeria, says Makinde *His demise suspends Gbajabiamila’s chieftaincy installationUdora Orizu in Abuja and Kemi Olaitan in Ibadan President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, yesterday, described the late Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi lll, as deeply knowledgeable and custodian of the Yoruba culture and history, adding that his passing was a great loss to the Yoruba people at home and in the diaspora, and to Nigeria as a nation.In the same vein, Oyo State Governor, Seyi Makinde, described the late monarch as an encyclopedia of Yoruba’s traditional history, who had a solution to every problem.Sadly, however, one of the fallouts of the death of Alaafin is that the installation of the Speaker, House of Representatives, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, as the Aare Baasofin of Yorubaland (the Supreme Lawmaker of Yorubaland), has been automatically called off for now.Lawan, who condoled with the government and people of Oyo State and the entire Yoruba race over the loss of the Alaafin, whom he described as “a great African traditional ruler,” added that, “Oba Adeyemi regally represented the culture and tradition of the Yoruba people and the great history of Oyo Empire, one of the greatest in Africa, especially, south of the Sahara.“Oba Adeyemi, in his long reign, contributed greatly to the social and physical development of the old Western State, Oyo State and entire Nigeria, whether under military rule or in the burgeoning democracy.“He did this not just as a custodian of Yoruba history, but also as a deeply knowledgeable and wise traditional ruler. Oba Adeyemi, to his last day on the throne, attracted respect and reverence for the stool of Alaafin of Oyo due to the way he exhibited the dignity of the Institution.“His voice of wisdom shall be sorely missed by his subjects, fellow traditional rulers, governments and people across the Nigerian polity. I commiserate with his family, the people of Oyo State, the entire Yoruba race and Nigerians in general on the loss of a great African traditional ruler and wish his soul sweet repose,” Lawan said.Makinde, during his condolence visit to the family of the late monarch at the Aafin (Palace), Oyo, noted that though Oba Adeyemi lived long and reigned for 52 years, it was still painful that he had to go at this time.He added that the late monarch lived a life that had great impact on humanity, stating that hisimpact transcended the borders of Oyo State to all parts of the federation.The governor said the deaths of three foremost traditional rulers, namely the Soun of Ogbomoso, Oba Jimoh Oyewunmi Ajagungbade; the Olubadan of Ibadanland, Oba Saliu Adetunji and now the Alaafin of Oyo, were ordained by God and that they all lived a life of impact and left significant marks that would bring progress to the state.“No matter how old the Alaafin was, we would not have wanted him to join his ancestors. When he ascended the throne of his forefathers, I was very young. But because of the way Kabiyesi was to us, we would have loved to have him with us forever if it was possible. For that, we are sad but we are also happy because Kabiyesi lived long on the throne of his forefathers.“Secondly, since we heard about the news of his death, throughout yesterday, I received calls from the Presidency and a lot of my colleagues. Sultan of Sokoto and Emir of Kano have called me personally.“What this means is that Kabiyesi lived a fulfilled and impactful life not only in Oyo State but throughout the federation. That is why those who are mourning with us could also feel the impact. At this point that we are mourning the passage of Baba, they are also identifying with us.“In Oyo State, we have perhaps lost the last human encyclopedia of our traditional history, because several times when I visited him and told him the kind of problem we had, he had solution to everything. So, it is a very difficult void to fill. In fact, I don’t know, who else we can go and meet, who can replace Kabiyesi.“When I visited him in 2015 and told him about my ambition, he frankly told me it was not going to work out due to one reason or the other and, at last, I failed but I learnt certain things. Not many people will tell one the truth. Kabiyesi told me it would not work and it never worked out.“Having realised this, I got to understand again that in position of authority, not many people will want to tell one the truth, and that lesson came from Kabiyesi.“For all of us in Oyo State, it is a difficult period and what we need more is prayers. All the good things Baba wished to come to pass, may God give us the wisdom to actualise them. And I want to promise everybody that, as a government, we will do everything possible to give him a befitting burial rite,” he said.The governor equally charged the Oyomesi, who were saddled with the responsibility of choosing the next Alaafin not to allow a vacuum for too long, noting that his government would ensure that the wishes of the late Alaafin come to pass. “I want to appeal to you Oyo mesi, who are in charge of installation of monarchs. We don’t want to see any vacuum for a long time. When you are done with the rites you are supposed to perform, we are here to ensure the wishes of Baba come to pass,” he added. Meanwhile, the cancellation of Gbajabiamila’s coronation ceremony was contained in a statement issued by the Special Adviser on Media and Publicity to the Speaker, Lanre Lasisi, yesterday. Gbajabiamila was conferred with the traditional title by the late Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi, in September 2021. An invitation card of the event that surfaced online showed that the installation was slated to take place on Friday, May 27, 2022, with the All Progressives Congress’ presidential aspirant, Bola Tinubu, named as the Chairman of the occasion, and the Ooni of Ife, Adeyeye Ogunwusi, as the Royal Father of the Day. Lasisi said the event was postponed following the death of the Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi III, since according to him, Alaafin died before the distribution of invitation cards for the event. “You will recall that his Royal Highness, the late Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Olayiwola Adeyemi III, communicated the conferment of the title of Aare Baasofin of Yoruba Land to Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila through an appointment letter dated September 7, 2021, and presented to the Speaker on Thursday, September 30, 2021, at the National Assembly, Abuja, by members of the Oyomesi Council led by the Bashorun of Oyo Kingdom, High Chief Olayinka Ayoola, who is the traditional Prime Minister of Oyo Kingdom and Bishop Ayo Ladigbolu. “Upon which the Speaker, in turn, accepted the appointment with gratitude to God. However, due to the tight work schedule of the Speaker, the Chieftaincy ceremony could not hold throughout 2021, until this year, when the date of May 27, 2022, was agreed with the palace but as God in his majesty will have it, the revered monarch passed on Friday night before the distribution of Invitation cards for the event (May Allah grant him Aljanah Firdaus). “Naturally, the event can no longer hold as the Speaker, the entire Yoruba race, Nigerians home and abroad mourn the demise of the widely respected Monarch.”