 Laleye Dipo in Minna The senatorial ambition of the Niger State Governor, Alhaji Abubakar Sani Bello, is tearing the All Progressives Congress (APC) membership in the Niger North senatorial district apart, investigations by THISDAY has revealed. Although the governor has not openly declared any senatorial ambition, his foot soldiers have been working ceaselessly to ensure he picks the single ticket for the zone. To ensure the success of the governor, the zoning and micro zoning of the party and elective positions have been skewed in his favour. THISDAY findings revealed that the first step in the carefully weaved plan was to take the state chairmanship of the party to the Borgu emirate, resulting in Mr. Haliru Zakari Jikantoro being victorious, a victory which no doubt has transferred the senatorial seat to the Kontagora emirate in the zone and blocked any chance of the incumbent Senator, Sabi Abdullahi, nursing any ambition to seek reelection for a third term as senator. To further clear the way for a Sani Bello senatorial ticket, the planners have micro-zoned the House of Representatives seat for Kontagora/Wushishi/ Mariga/ Mashegu federal constituency out of Kontagora emirate headquarters, thereby edging out Hon Idris Garba popularly known as Mai Solar. Rijau, a very critical and important area in the senatorial zone, was given the North Central zone vice chairman of the party with former state Commissioner for Finance, Mr. Muazu Bawa Rijau, as the occupant of the seat effectively sealing the lips of agitators from that area. Interestingly, THISDAY learnt that the House of Representatives seat for the area is being reserved for the present Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Mr. Ahmed Ibrahim Matane. The maneuvering has created deep mistrust among  members of the party with majority of them now considering jumping ship and teaming up with either the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) or the newly formed New Nigeria Political Party (NNPP) in order to realise their ambitions. Yahaya Ability, zonal chairman of the PDP, confirmed to THISDAY that: “Many APC members have been coming to us; they want to contest on our platform. “I have told them to first decamp publicly and be ready to go through the primary election.”