 EmmanuelUgwu-Nwogo in Umuahia The factional posturing in the Abia State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has lost steam as influential party chieftains in the factional camps have finally embraced the authentic state executives led by Dr. Kingsley Ononogbu. This new development came to light at the fundraising event organised by the duly elected state party leadership of the main opposition party in the state. The erstwhile supporters of factional leaders did not only come back, but also recognised the authentic state party leadership and also donated money for the running of the party. Among the chieftains in the factional camp, who have now identified with Ononogbu’s leadership, include House of Representatives spokesman, Hon Ben Kalu, and Hon Sam Onuigbo, who represents Ikwuano/Umuahia federal constituency, as well as Chief Henry Ikoh, a former state commissioner. Some state lawmakers on APC platform also saw reason to cross over to the authentic state leadership. They include Hon Chijioke Chukwu of Bende South state constituency, Hon Mike Ukoha of Arochukwu state constituency, as well as former lawmaker representing Aba Central state constituency, Dr. Blessing Nwagba. With these party chieftains withdrawing their support for the factional Chairman, Acho Obioma, he has found himself in limbo and risked being sanctioned by the national leadership of APC if he continues to sabotage the party. Sources within the state APC hinted that the remaining notable party stalwarts in the factional camp, the Senate Chief Whip, Orji Uzor Kalu, and Minister of State for Solid Mineral and Steel Sevelopment, Mr. Uche Ogah “will soon jump out of the sinking factional ship.” The party chieftains hitherto in the factional camp all pledged their loyalty and cooperation to the state party leadership to ensure the electoral success of the APC in 2023 general election. They also decried the poor state of infrastructure in Abia State, the decline of social services across the state, and the pains that the present administration have continued to inflict on workers and pensioners, who are allegedly starved of salaries and pensions respectively. Leader of the state APC, Chief Ikechi Emenike, in his address, noted that the “APC has remained the only consistent and reliable party with clear-cut vision and road approach on how Abia would be developed,” adding that the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) is best described as the “leaving party.” He regretted that other opposition parties had long become appendages of the ruling party, but he stated that the APC has already embarked on a rescue mission that would change the narrative of Abia State in 2023. To ensure complete ouster of PDP from the Government House, Emenike called for massive mobilisation of voters and masses in the state using door-to-door mobilisation for voters registration, membership drive, and personal sacrifices on the part of party members. Deputy Chief Whip of the House of Representatives, Hon Nkeiruka Onyejeocha, told party members that the time to sit on the fence on issues concerning the state had gone, urging the members to take the message to every nook and cranny of the state. Onyejeocha, who represents Umunneochi/ Isuikwuato federal constituency, said things have degenerated so badly in the state that even people from both within and outside the country have continued to ask why nothing has been done to rescue the state from bad leaders. Earlier in his welcome address, Dr. Ononogbu called for concerted efforts of party members to save the state from bad governance. “This great party belongs to all of us, and all our collective inputs are highly needed, and if not jointly done, we will be operating without a clear direction,” he stated.