TIPS OF THE WEEK  The radiator fan in your car is a critical component. Together with other components, it helps to keep your engine running safely and efficiently. How does it do that? If you’re looking to understand the car cooling fan, read on. This first section will help you learn the following; radiator fan definition, the types of car radiator fans, their working, and the cost to buy a new fan, among other things. Starting with the definition, let us see what the fan in car cooling systems means and where to find it. What is a Radiator Fan? The radiator fan is the cooling fan for car or truck engines. It’s usually used in vehicles with water-cooled engines and mounted between in front or behind the radiator. The car fan then pushes (or pulls) air through the radiator core, helping to cool the fluid circulating in the radiators tiny tubes. Radiator cooling fans help to regulate engine temperature during specific situations. These include times when your car is moving slowly (below 25 mph) or when the engine is idling. The fans are, therefore, classified among the parts that make the engine cooling system. Car radiator fans differ in many ways such as material, construction, and capability. The material can be metal or plastic. Molded plastic radiator fans are common, with the fan assembly being a one-piece plastic. Some, like the flex types, feature a steel frame and flexible plastic vanes or blades. In terms of design, the cooling fan for car engines is identified by the number of blades, their length or pitch, and the type of hub. Fan capability, on the other hand, depends on the construction and size, among other factors. One of the most important abilities is the amount of air that a fan can move or CFM rating. The higher the CFM, the more powerful the fan. To help you understand the radiator fan assembly better, here is a look at the parts that make it. Radiator Fan Parts The car cooling fan is a simple device with only a few parts. Although designs vary, the typical fan for car and truck engines is a hub and blade assembly. Here are the parts explained. Central hub– this is the part that contains the fan’s drive components and, in some types of the fan, the clutch assembly Fan blades– these are the arms that project from the hub. They are specially engineered to move air in the most efficient way possible Support bracket– the bracket supports the fan assembly. It also allows for its mounting Clutch– found in older versions of the car engine fan, the clutch helps to engage and disengage the fan depending on the engine cooling demands. It can be thermally or electronically operated. Most are thermal Motor– this part is only found in an electric radiator cooling fan. Its function is to power the fan. The cooling fan motor is usually rated 12V and the Direct Current type Shroud– some radiator cooling fans contain a shroud or housing around the blades and drive assembly. The housing helps to direct air for a more efficient cooling action Now that you know what is a cooling fan in a car, let’s have a look at the different types of the fan and how they work, including the advantages of each. Types of Cooling Fans There are several different types of cooling fan for cars. The fans can be mechanical or electrical and single or dual. There are also the universal radiator fans which are obtainable under that name. The type of fan that your car uses depends on the car type, model and year of make if a stock model. If it’s an upgrade fan, the type will depend on your car engine cooling demands. Let’ us now see how each works. Mechanical Radiator Fan- Mechanical fans are engine-driven and normally mounted on the water pump pulley. The mechanical radiator fan is available in two major versions; clutch-based and flex. The clutch type uses a thermostatic clutch to engage and flywheel. The flex type, on the other hand, uses flexible blades that flatten at higher engine speeds or rpm to vary the amount of air blowing through the radiator. Mechanical fans are normally found on older vehicles. They take up a lot of space and do not suit compact cars with limited space in the engine bay. The mechanical fan is easy to service though, seeing that it contains no electrical parts. The fan is also usually powerful enough to move large amounts of air, thereby achieving a better cooling effect. Electric Radiator Fan- An electric radiator fan uses a dc motor and does not directly rely on the engine to run. To control the electric cooler fan motor, several components are necessary. They are relay, fuse, ECU, and sensors. The radiator fan relay switches on the power circuit. On the other hand, the radiator fan fuse protects the fan from power surges, while the ECM (or separate fan ECU) uses sensor data to control the motor operation. The electric radiator cooling fan does not take up a lot of space since it uses no pulleys or belts. It’s also does not produce a drag on the engine as it runs on electricity. But the main advantage of electric fans for radiator cooling is their controllability. They can turn on and off at any time, even when the engine isn’t running. This allows for a more efficient and effective cooling fan system. Single Radiator Fan- a single fan uses a one-fan setup to push air through the radiator. Most vehicles use single radiator cooling fans. This configuration is usually sufficient for the cooling needs of most engines. A single cooling fan may not be adequate for some large or modified engines, though, and may lead to overheating problems. Dual Radiator Fan- dual fans are assembled in two’s. They operate together to move air through the radiator core, providing a more effecting cooling effect. Dual radiator configurations are suitable for large engines that need a higher CFM rating. They are also used when the engine has been modified or when there are overheating issues. Universal Radiator Fan- universal radiator fans are built to fit universally, that’s, different vehicle types and models. With these kinds of fans, it doesn’t matter if your car has the cooling fan mounted in front or behind the radiator. Universal cooling fans are popular as aftermarket types and with motorists looking to upgrade their engine systems. Mechanical vs. Electric Radiator Fan Mechanical cooling fans run off the engine’s crankshaft and the electrical type off a 12V DC motor. The electric cooling fan is better in many ways. It can be set to rotate at any time and at the required speed, unlike the mechanical type. Because electric car cooling fans do not spin with the engine, they produce a more consistent airflow and do not affect engine horsepower. Another advantage of electric radiator cooling fan types is their compactness. They can be installed in tight places, and even allow dual fan setups. In conclusion, the best fans for cars today are electrical. They are more controllable, easy on the engine, and do not cause wear to the water pump. They’re more expensive, though. If your stock cooling fan is mechanical, you could consider upgrading, although that would mean expensive modifications. Single vs. Dual Radiator Fan Radiator cooling fans can be a single or dual configuration. Dual radiator fans move more air when compared to the single types. In most cases, though, a single fan is just enough. These include small engine applications where the engine does not generate a lot of heat. In some situations, a single fan may not be enough, leading to engine overheating problems. These include large, high rpm or modified engines. If you have a turbo charger or supercharger, for example, a dual fan setup would suit the engine cooling requirements best.(Source: mzwmotor)