 Fidelis David Two presidential aspirants of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo and Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, yesterday, visited Ondo State to solicit for votes from delegates ahead of the party’s primary slated for May 30 and June 1. The duo, while speaking to delegates, said the country needed president and leader with experience, courage, capacity and economic understanding that would rescue Nigeria from her current challenges. Osinbajo met with Governor Rotimi Akeredolu (SAN); state executives and delegates at the Cocoa conference hall, governor’s office, Akure, while Amaechi visited the palace of the Deji of Akure land, residence of a former Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Chief Olu Falae and the Ondo State APC Secretariat in Akure. The Vice President said it would be unjust for him to retire from politics to Ikene, his hometown or Lagos State, when he was competent enough to lead the nation. He noted that  his mission was to inform the people his intention to succeed the incumbent President Buhari having served under him loyally for seven years. On his part, Amaechi, who declared that he remained the most experienced among the aspirants in the party, stressed that while he was governor of Rivers State, he used his experience to end kidnapping and other security challenges in the state. He said though other aspirants of the party were competent, having served as Councillor, Speaker of the state House of Assembly for eight years, Chairman of the Nigerian Governors’ Forum (NGF) and Minister of the federal republic, he possessed the qualities to lead Nigeria to overcome security and other challenges. Reacting to the requests of the state Chairman of APC, Ade Adetimehin and Oba Aladetoyinbo Aladelusi, the Deji of Akure, Ameachi gave an assurance that if elected as president, he would ensure Seaport for  Ondo state and Railway project through Akure would be actualised. “Nigeria needs a detribalised, firm and effective leader. In less than one year, I became the governor of Rivers State, militancy stopped in the state and the reason why it stopped was that every time there was militancy, our revenue from the federal government dropped so we needed to look for money in order to develop the state, to stop the kidnapping and others. “I have had the experience in finding lasting solution to insecurity in my state, I’m not the person that they will teach, because I have already known. Besides, I’m still going to learn on how we will end insecurity in our dear country. “I’m going to give all necessary backing to the issue of security in order to secure the nation. I also believe that if we grow the economic and support our security system, we will definitely find a lasting solution to insecurity. I have participated in moving this country forward and I will continue to do so. “Your votes matter this time around; we are here in Akure this time around to seek your support, and not for only general election but for us to win the primary election, which will give us the grace to be party candidate and once we are voted for in the general election, the traditional rulers will be given a responsibility to play in the constitution,” Amaechi said.