 It’s okay for the nation to continue to mourn Monday’s mindless attack on a Kaduna-bound train, which left some eight people dead, many injured and scores still unaccounted for after they were kidnapped, what is not okay is for some inane few to still find an indecent opening to play politics with an incident that should have united the nation and forced a more effective solution. First, the insinuation was that the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, was more concerned about the investment losses from the bomb attack than the lives wasted, and soon after, these idle jobbers further peddled the rumour that the minister had requested of Nigerians to contribute money so they could assist with the bills of those, who made it to the hospital. Neither of these, however, has been proven to be correct. On the one hand, the minister, indeed, made a promise, when he visited the military hospital that the transport ministry would defray some of the costs of the treatments of survivors by sending down some cash, since the hospital treated everyone without asking for money and later went on to state that the attack could have been prevented had the Federal Executive Council (FEC) approved his request for a little over three billion naira to fix some security detection devices, which would have aided in not only monitoring criminal activities around the tracks, but also prompted them in acting proactively. But the politics that was later introduced by those, who felt attacked by this revelation has further exposed their hypocrisy, as exemplified in the manner they leaked the said FEC memo, just to justify why the request was turned down. Unfortunately, the leaked memo, which contained the alleged reasons for turning down the request further gave them away. The truth, according to reliable sources, is that the FEC did not query the Bureau of Public Procurement (BPP) over the lucky company, neither was there any debate about when the company was registered, because it was not part of the conditions precedent. Therefore, the procurement process was not part of the debate. But the Vice President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo, who presided over the particular FEC meeting, suddenly raised the issue of device brand, which was completely extraneous in the debate context. Rather than put the brand issue aside and give approval in the meantime, since it was of no consequence, Osinbajo declined and alleged blackmail after he was forewarned his decision could result in loss of lives, because credible intelligence had hinted that the tracks might be attacked since people had abandoned the roads for the safer transportation mode. Osinbajo still stood it down and now that Amaechi’s prediction came to pass, the pastor-politician was the first to also visit Kaduna to sympathise with victims. What hypocrisy!