 Femi Akintunde-Johnson We continue with the diverse and sometimes deprecating perspectives on sentiments and perceptions on the electability of 12 notable presidential hopefuls, published in several articles in this column between January and March this year. Please, read on… ON KAYODE FAYEMI – Published JANUARY 29, 2022: I respect your view but disagree with it. Quite amusing that you would consider the Chairman of the Nigerian Governors Forum a lightweight. It is a similar position Bill Clinton occupied in the US when he won the Democratic Party’s ticket and went on to defeat Bush Senior in the general election. Fayemi, a two-term Governor and former Minister, has managed his state considerably well despite the lean resources he has had to contend with. In my opinion, he has all it takes to unify our country and manage our problematic diversity. Your opinion does not do justice to the experience, personality and competence of Fayemi. – Julius Ogunro JFK tried his best in governance and I can only say there is always room for improvement… Did he too want to contest? He’s yet to show interest naa. – Aluko Olu Isaacs Failure from the beginning… What did he do for Ekiti people? What is his achievement? He should go and register as local govt messenger. – Adeleye Adeniyi For me, the only criteria for assessing the suitability of Governor Fayemi for President is his performance as a two-term Governor of Ekiti state. What value has he been able to add to the lives of the Ekiti people? How has he been able to change their lives? What are his achievements as a two-term governor and what are the Ekiti people saying about him? As far as l am concerned, if he did nothing for the Ekiti people as governor, he will do nothing for Nigerians as president. Ditto for all the other presidential aspirants. – Michael Shina Martins Interesting perspective. I wouldn’t say I completely disagree, but there are parts of your write-up that make one curious. When you say he has a “hazy national pedigree in governance”, it suggests anyone without a “national pedigree in governance” stands no chance of winning a presidential election in Nigeria. Goodluck Jonathan and the late Umaru Musa Yar’Adua would disagree with you on that. Also, it suggests anyone without a “national pedigree in governance” shouldn’t vie for the Office of the President, irrespective of their qualifications and capacity. But to the issue of having a “national pedigree in governance” or not, I find it hard to agree that someone who has been a two-time governor, chairman of the Nigerian Governors’ Forum, and a former federal minister, would be said to have a “hazy national pedigree in governance”. – Declan Okoye Fayemi does not have record of performance. Just like his predecessor, Fayose… same of the same. – Victor Adegbembo His wife should be made Minister for Women Affairs in the next dispensation, she would be eminently effective and it would be a compensation and negotiated position for Fayemi supporting Asiwaju Tinubu for President, while Asiwaju Tinubu supports his candidate (BAO) for Governor. – Akinkunmi Bello Oga, you missed the mark with this. Absolutely. Fayemi has the pedigree and threshold of competence to be a great leader of this country. You could say he is not a populist and is somewhat academic, but he is sound and appears to understand the nuances of a complex country such as ours. I will support him over the current pretenders. – Peter Edache Failure. – Oludare Adebisi ON YAHAYA BELLO – FEBRUARY 05: While we gaze at many failures of Bello, I think morality demands that we also take a glimpse at his successes. Or are we saying since he became governor, it has always been stories of woes? – Mufu Onifade This man that can not govern a state wants to rule Nigerians? – Ojo Samuel ON NYESOM WIKE – FEBRUARY 05: FAJ, you are looking for Wike’s trouble o! – Sola Adesokan ON AMINU TAMBUWAL – FEBRUARY 12: That’s a good story for Tambuwal and it really shows us the only way to get power in Nigeria. His routes are the only conventional way to be influential in any retail politics we run here. Aminu is not the expected radical we are looking for, he started eating crumbcakes from the table of the crumbs and now he is now a crumb master, and the Nigerian graduates feel so bad about his visions for better Nigeria and his state people. Do we have to mention things that need to be done? If they want us to tell them what we want, fine, we will tell them. What is not acceptable is not to see a good politician among us. It is painful that most of our leaders are not worthy to carry the shoes of one county house of reps (member) around town in the USA. Tambuwal did not distance himself from the old cargoes and that’s where he got it wrong on arrival. I wish him good luck. – Gbenga Akeju ON RABIU KWANKWASO – FEBRUARY 12: This is a brief but commendable history… – Olawale Esan You are entitled to your opinion, it’s within your Fundamental Human Right. – Tokunbo Omolase (To Continue) EBENEZER OBEY-FABIYI: LEGENDARY MINSTREL AT 80 It took his parents a few years to notice traces of musical robustness in him after his birth 80 years ago (on April 3, 1942). Ebenezer Olasupo Arẹmu Fabiyi however, had to wait 16 years to start what has turned out to be a most illustrious career. He toiled with the “rave-of-the-moment” Lagos bands of Ade Ade, Akibo Salvage and Fatai Rolling Dollars between 1958 and 1963. Right after leaving Rolling Dollars to found his own International Brothers Band, he morphed his name to something more street smart – Ebenezer Obey, and released a delightful debut, Ewa Wo Ohun Oju Ri. He was barely in his twenties! From a remarkably inspirational repertoire in excess of 150 compositions, Nigerians of the 20th and 21st centuries have been titillated by the sonorous philosophy and lingering didacticism of this Idogo, Ogun State born maestro. Here’s a classic checklist: Board Members, Kẹtẹkẹtẹ, Happy Birthday To You, Awọn Ika Eniyan, Laiṣẹ Lairo, Iwọ Ẹni To Nsebi, Abanijẹ Eniyan, Eniyan Lásán, Orí Mí Koni Burú, Ọta Mi Dẹhin Lẹhìn Mi, Eda To Mose Okunkun, Olomi Gbọ Temi, Ẹni Ri Nkan He, Gb’ẹbẹ Mi Oluwa, Ajo Ko Dabi Ile, Edumare Sọrọ Mi Dayọ, Iba F’Oluwa, Aimasiko Lon’ Damu Ẹda, Ẹ Sa Ma Miliki, Baba Lo Ran Mi Wa, and so on. Almost 23 years ago (in late 1999 when he was aged 57) I caused the following statement to be published: “As this century winds up with [Evangelist (Dr.) Ebenezer Obey-Fabiyi (MFR)] devoting his incredible talent to the ministry of God, we salute this astute businessman, devoted father and creator of Miliki (Juju) music.” Well, last Sunday, April 3, 2022, in glorious fulfillment of those thoughts, and with massive admiration for an uncommon living legend, in the art and craft of knitting words, faith and fun in a musical contraption that keeps people of all tongues, tribes, creeds and strata on their feet, gyrating to the power and pungency of the invisible force of Juju music… we wish the ageless creative Commander, and iconic lamp holder of edifying minstrelsy… a wonderful and epochal 80th anniversary.