 Wale Babalakin: Easy Like Sunday Morning I know some people will not know the meaning of this headline now o. It was Lionel Richie that sang that song, ‘Easy Like Sunday Morning’. You know how calm and easy-going Sunday morning can be. That was how I met Dr Babalakin when I was ushered into his expansive office during the week. My Lord Chike and I had gone in for a meeting and the first surprise was my very first crush in this life- the ever beautiful and elegant Modupe Nee Oduwole. If you guys see how this lady used to be fine in school you will understand why I failed and got kicked out. While still maintaining her ever glow, I found her working very closely with Babalakin. She was very professional as she ushered us in and we met the highly respected individual in that state of mind – Easy Like Sunday Morning. He looked really calm, still very handsome with a touch of gray hair, with deep and penetrative eyes. He welcomed us and we started talking about our business but I had lost interest in the business and could not wait to talk to him about University of Lagos, ASUU and the recent takeover of the Government College Ibadan by the alumni of which he is a major leader. He kept looking at me as Chike spoke about our real business. I guessed as kindred spirits he could sense my unease as I tried to erupt with a volley of questions. Immediately Chike finished, I blasted: “Can I ask about UNILAG?” The easiness left and he engaged us very robustly. His position on the matter is the same as mine. For us to solve this problem, there has to be a push back by the government. Government must pull back and allow for a ‘deregulation’ of the sector. This would bring in the much-needed probity and transparency needed to shore up the quality of education. On GCI, the old boys, according to him, have thrown in a lot of funds to remodel the school and upgrade it in a bid to make it a real model of qualitative education in the country. As we walked away, I began to wonder why didn’t we really understand him? Why was I afraid of him in the first place? Why all the controversies? This man means well especially on education, they should allow him abeg. Magnus Onyibe: They Have Stolen It It was with excitement that my very erudite brother reached out during the week. “Edgar, where can we drop my latest book for you?” I gave him the address and pronto, the book arrived. I was amazed. Hard cover? Who still does hard cover in this ‘Buharinomics’? It was beautiful with a classy feel about it. The title was something like – ‘How to Choose a Nigerian President: A Citizen’s Guide’ I opened the book and fell in love with it immediately. The first chapter was amazingly engaging and full. Magnus really understands our polity and with his dying need to chronicle, this just makes me extremely excited. That was how I asked my dutiful Eche, a very handsome lad, to take a picture with the book so I could blast it to my followers on social media. Eche, after 30 minutes of different poses including one with my head twisted in a contortionist move — these millennials will not kill someone, we got the very best posture. And just like that,  the book was stolen. My people, the book lost o. We have been looking for it for the past three days. Nothing o. I don’t know whether to be happy or sad; happy that the book was so engaging that someone felt the need to steal it or sad that my own book ‘Anonymous Nipples’ with pictures of different naked women remains complete 20 copies in the same place without anybody trying to steal it. Is the thief saying that Magnus is a better writer than me? What is this rubbish na. He should have at least stolen a copy of my own so that this Magnus will not now be thinking that he can write more than me. If you see how this thing was paining me, you would think someone stole the Duchess from me. Please Mr. Thief, better come back and thief my own book. I have kept 20 copies in the same place with the doors open. Come and thief o and give me rest of mind. Which kain trouble be this sef? Nyesom Wike:  I Am Weak Last week’s presidential declaration by gravel-voice Governor of Rivers State Nyesom Wike, hit with a thud. It didn’t take too many observers by surprise because judging from his positioning, status in the PDP, it would have been a loud bang if he did not declare. This, in my view, will increase the entertainment value of the whole process as Wike is a genius when it comes to jabs. I am crazy about his jabs and the fearlessness with which he delivers them, hitting the jackpot almost at every point. Do you remember the one he gave one big traditional ruler in Rivers? See as this one siddon here with big big title, na small boy o… I wanted to die. I cannot even wait for how he will take on Tinubu if he emerges. I really pity APC because whatever candidate they bring out will be a major target for Wike. But even he himself will need to cross the PDP huddle contesting against Ancestor Atiku, Bukola Saraki and others. He will need much more than funny wits and Rivers  money to win this one. I saw a report recently saying that he has put together a team of 21 SANs to defend any PDP member contesting and feel the need for judicial intervention. But wait, is anybody doing anything about campaign funding? Is the state money now the same thing as campaign funds? This is a question we will discuss much later as we get closer. For now, let me just say that Wike comes with his strength because his understanding of ‘agbero’ politics is really needed to oust APC but after then nko? I am hungry. Let me go and eat and come. Udom Emmanuel:  I See You Coming My governor has released posters with him wearing a face mask. Mbok, make he dey wear face mask dey come o so we don’t recognise him as he walks towards a declaration. You see, if what these beautifully made posters are correct – Udom for Presidency, what I will say is “ even this one  jump in? We don suffer for this country.” I will not allow myself to be beclouded by the excitement that will come with him making history. If I am correct, he is the first Akwa Ibom man to contest for the position to now turn back and shout in excitement when all I want to do is cry. If I have ever seen a pipe dream, na this one. A man who is not known outside of Uyo.  A man who has not grown in stature beyond the Akwa Ibom zone; a man that has not taken any meaningful position in national politics and issues; a man not known in Damaturu or Ekiti. Not even in Abia his next-door neighbour will now want to go and be wasting our money in a self-delusional run for Presidency. My advice is for him to first go and collect the multibillion Naira Hostel Akan Udofia built for the Akwa Ibom State University, pay bursary to every Akwa Ibom Student and use the change to buy citizenship in Dominican Republic. He needs a long rest. Mbok nyag itie sung. Lanre Olusola: Coach of the Year The jury is out. They have asked for people all over the world to vote for the Online Coach who has done the most globally in the areas of growth plans, business strategies, constructive feedback and personalised advice to accelerate business and individual growth and revenue. My people, that Lanre has been iconic in this space can be attested to in the number of businesses he has been part of from incubation to stability. His calm mien when engaging in personalised counselling puts him heads above his peers. His influence can be seen by the thousands who have benefited from his expertise. He has grown so many ‘coachlets’ that you can safely say, he is the grandfather of space. He deserves the accolade. Femi Otedola: Hear Our Prayers This diesel matter almost make me homeless. As the price of the thing was jumping in Malthusian proportions and income shrinking in NLC proportions, some of us could no longer afford the essential commodity. One baba for my side wanted to make mouth. “I will donate diesel to you guys,” he gleefully announced on the estate’s WhatsApp group. Everybody start to hail am like the MC Oluomo of our estate. Then the Buhari Magic started to happen. The man made the pledge at N400. By the time the WhatsApp message was read by all, the thing had jumped to N560. The baba startsd to sweat. I am sure his wife would have given him the Bianca treatment. He sent a message to the admin saying: “Can I send the old price and you guys add the rest?” We said “No sir. Be a man of your words.” By the time the reply hit him, the thing don reach N600. He starts to run helter skelter. Which kain ‘alakoba’,  he must have said to himself. By the time he fulfilled his pledge, the thing had hit N700, on its way to N800. Till he dies, he will not make that kind of pledge again. The power situation now compounds the problem, making diesel the next thing to Jehovah Jireh after his Son and the Holy Prophet. Inflation hit expectedly and even runs girls quadrupled their prices. The price index in that space went up by 3,000% so a one-hour jaunt that used to be N5,000 now moved to 25,000 and N40,000 per night up from N10,000. Condoms moved from N300 to N2,500 and this is what is really causing the anger in the land, not all the factories that have had to close down or the hospitals who could not run their operations. It is the huge increase in price of ‘ishalabunta’. So, to my Egbon the Right Hon. Femi Otedola I run to. Remember he used to be the diesel king. He had sent me a clip of the interview on Channels TV that he had given on the issue and what struck me was when he said that we all know the landing price of this product and as such these pricings can never be the case in a natural and transparent system. Long story short, some people are using our balls to do Suya. So I did the next best thing at that point, “Baba mbok, leave Gelato ice-cream for a second and come back and save us from these pirates. Come and rescue the sector.” He didn’t answer me for three days o and one morning he sent an emoji showing him lying on the floor with his hands in the air. Lord, if you know something or have the solution come back to your throne o, ye King of the Diesel. You need to come back before these girls start charging my annual rent for 30 minutes of service o. You know at our age the duration of the action is getting shorter and the price cannot be going in an inverse direction. That is not good economics, ask Prof Soludo. Please Lord, heed our call. Oba Abdulwasiu Omogbolahan Lawal:  Accept My Condolences The Oniru of Iruland has announced the sad loss of his dear mother Olori Muinat Olabisi Abeni Ajasa Lawal-Akapo. It was announced that the late Olori passed on Wednesday. I met Kabiyesi recently and was gleefully impressed at the engagement we had. His grasp of various issues bordering on tradition and culture really got to me as a strong advocate of the continued preservation of our traditions and culture. Kabiyesi let me seize this opportunity to send to you, your family and the entire people of your wonderful Iru land condolences on this passing. Allah will grant you the fortitude to bear this obviously huge loss and also give you the strength to condole your family and subjects. Take care Kabiyesi. Access Bank: A Worthy Anniversary When the expected announcement of the new structure was made, it was well received by the markets and other stakeholders. The seeming seamless transition was world-class and devoid of the underground rancour that has witnessed some other players. Then they announced the new Board both at the Holdco level and at the subsidiary level, throwing up about 15 subsidiaries. Remarkable individuals tapped to engage. Quite impressive. My only issue is, why their aim is to be Africa’s ‘most respected bank’ that is ambiguous and evasive, almost fearful because there is no basis for measurement of ‘most respected’. They should not be afraid, come out and say we want to be Africa’s biggest financial institution in Revenue or Deposits or something we can count and hold. You have the people, you operate in the biggest market in Africa and you have the lion heart judging from where you came from to where you are today to emerge Africa’s biggest by deposits or financial size and begin to compete with the world’s biggest. Well-done guys, we will continue to applaud and support in our own little way. Congrats to the team and to my friends inside there especially the beautiful brown-skinned customer care sweetie that used to be at the Awolowo Road, Ikoyi Branch. It’s because of you we are still there o, no be all these big men with bald head o. I don run ooo. Toke Makinwa: Please Don’t Go If you are a regular reader of this column, you will notice that I have proclaimed my mad love for this lady many times o. She will just be ignoring me and be doing as if she does not know that I am trying to chase her. That was how she interviewed me the other day on radio for one of my plays and I was just looking at her skin. These ones used to bathe with alabaster oil o. Well, people have been saying they are running away from Nigeria that the wahala is too much and the suffering and violence is something that they cannot comprehend. Me, I used to beg them to go so we can have space to rebuild this country. Mbok, anybody that want to go can go. In fact, government should set up another ministry called the Ministry of Exit Affairs for Abike Dabiri to run. That one has been looking for that kind of job for a while now. We are too much in the country, so let some of us go. Philippines, Mexico and the rest have national policies that allow their citizens to carry dem wahala and go. It’s time we did the same. All these Reno Omokiri type people, they should mbok just leave us with our wahala. Anyways, it is not Toke type people, I am talking about o. I have seen a report saying that Toke on the back of this gruesome train bombing was reported to have said, she will leave Nigeria. Mbok, I am begging you not to go anywhere o. But instead come to Nsit Ibom in Akwa Ibom State where I can take proper care of you. Put you in a fattening room, get our mothers to rub your skin with fresh palm oil and give you delicious Afang and Ekpang Nkukwo so that your beauty will continue to luxuriate. Leave Nigeria problem for Buhari and Amaechi, na dem know why things be like this na. Abi if Kaduna houses almost all of the military paraphernalia and it is now under siege, is it my darling Toke Makinwa that will come and solve the problem? My dear, please whenever you are ready let me know. Ibom Air is on standby. God bless you. Lekki Toll Gate: Let the Toll Begin You see, the problem is lack of transparency in the way the government handles public policy. The lack of adequate communications and the ‘bend bend’ way they do things usually puts them in this situation where rumours and outright fallacy lead the public positioning on things So, this Lekki toll gate is an example. There is nothing we have not heard. It is Tinubu that owns it, after all his son has the giant billboards on the thing. It is Tinubu’s grandfather that sold the land to Lagos and as a result he has seized it and is collecting billions daily and it was just one of the bullion vans that came to his house that day. You see, emotive reasons for engaging government is the bane of public- private engagement in social engineering. From what I have gleaned, the Lekki-Epe Expressway was a novel public and private sector infrastructure deal that was said to have been funded on the back of projected cash flows from a tolled expressway. This is the way it is done all over the world. But because of the ‘kurukere’ ways in which we do our things, the government has not been totally above board in its execution and engagement, hence the loophole that has led to public skepticism and angst. So now you can imagine how the government’s funding partners will be feeling. You can imagine the drain from government’s pockets as they struggle to meet up with the payments from a zero-collection point all because the government did not carry the public along. So the public would be right to feel that there is something not totally straight in the matter. This should be a major lesson to government at all levels as they engage the public and when I become a Senator in 2027, the area of oversight will be my foothold. This is what I am telling all these ‘kobo kobo’ presidential candidates that instead of pushing for the presidency, join me in the Senate. Let’s strengthen oversight, monitoring and execution and you will see the end of these things. Even if it is to be shouting and be crying alone, we can achieve a lot and you will see how things will get better. But will they listen? No amount of restructuring, rewriting the constitution will save us if we don’t have effective and credible leadership. So the people of Lekki, I don’t blame you guys for rejecting this toll gate but also kindly consider the private funds tied in the thing. It cannot be easy for them o.