 Ferdinand Ekechukwu Following the release of the trailer for “Blood Sisters,” Netflix and EbonyLife Studios’ CEO, Mo Abudu have clarified the thriller as the streamer’s first Nigerian original series. Initial Twitter reactions queried the streamer over the four-part series, as prior to the trailer and announcement of the movie release date, Kemi Adetiba’s limited “King of Boys” series was believed to be the Nigerian original series. Reacting to curious Twitter users, Abudu took to her official Instagram post with a statement. “Today, Netflix and EbonyLife Studios announce our pulsating limited series that will launch globally and exclusively on Netflix on the 5th of May 2022. This is officially Netflix’s First Nigerian Original Series as per the press release issued by Netflix today,” the film executive wrote. Netflix’s Manager, Content for Africa, Dorothy Ghettuba also confirmed the streamer’s stance in an Instagram post. She said: “From @moabudu and her outstanding team at @ebonylifestudios comes our first Nigerian original series Blood Sisters. What is it about? Glad you asked. It is about two friends, a dark secret and an unforgiving family. It is crazy y’all. Yo!!” The Adetiba directed limited series was presumed to be the streamer’s first Nigerian original series after the Akin Omotoso led one was back-burned. Recall that late last year, Netflix EbonyLife Studios revealed the cast of Blood Sisters, a Biyi Bandele and Kenneth Gyang directed four-part crime thriller. The pulsating series will premiere globally and exclusive to Netflix on May 5th, 2022. Blood Sisters tells the story of two friends Sarah (Ini Dima-Okojie) and Kemi (Nancy Isime). Sarah is engaged to her dream man, Kola (Deyemi Okanlawon). However, their seemingly idyllic union has a dark side and despite Kemi’s vocal misgivings, Sarah is determined to press on with the wedding. What follows is a heart-stopping series of catastrophic events marked by murder, love, betrayal and the test of friendship. The movie explores themes like intra-family relationships, physical and substance abuse, love, commitment and relationships, as well as the test of friendships when held up against challenging circumstances. Speaking on the importance of telling the Blood Sisters story, CEO of EbonyLife Studios Mo Abudu says: “Blood Sisters is a crime thriller, which is a new genre for us, so the prospect was challenging but very exciting! “It was also a particularly unique and intense experience as we shot during the pandemic, but we remained committed to the vision we share with Netflix – to tell authentic and exciting African stories with superb production values.” Blood Sisters features a sterling cast of Nollywood’s finest, including Ramsey Nouah, Kate Henshaw, Uche Jombo, Patrick Doyle, Joke Silva, Keppy Ekpenyong-Bassey, Wale Ojo, Deyemi Okanlawon, amongst others. Fan favourites among the cast include Gabriel Afolayan, Kehinde Bankole, Daniel Etim Effiong, Ibrahim Suleiman, Toke Makinwa and Okey Uzoeshi.