HighLife Tajudeen Adeyemi Adefisoye is a name that is well-known all over Nigeria now. The bearer is a young and charismatic go-getter, a champion among champions. After wading into tough political waters, he dragged everybody along, insistent on delivering the dividends of democracy to his people in Idanre/Ifedore Federal Constituency, Ondo State, Nigeria. Even now, Adefisoye is a spark that is burning for others to know that some things are still very possible. It used to be said that young people ruled Nigeria once. However, that is history. Contemporary society would find it a gruelling task to recall that age that is still thought to be golden. Thus, Adefisoye’s presence in Nigeria’s House of Representatives is that bud of hope that many Nigerians look to as capable of revitalising that old and golden era. Say what you will about the efficiency of the House of Representatives, you still have to admit that characters like Adefisoye make it an exciting floor. With his many innovative and disruptive ideas over the years, the man alternatively known as Small Alhaji has done more than his bit to push towards sustainable growth and development all around. Drawing from his experiences as a businessman and philanthropist, he has roared time and time again, bringing with it the echoing shadows of happy possibilities. Who is more proud of Adefisoye than his birthplace—Idanre? In talking about him as the youngest House of Reps member in Nigeria’s history, everybody mentions the fact that his hometown is not some faraway place of divinity, but Idanre. Today, those legendary hills of Idanre are making an appearance all over the world, all thanks to Adefisoye’s good name and work over the years. There is more to come, surely. Having joined the All Progressives Congress (APC) banner, Adefisoye is bound to shake Nigeria. After all, when he came to light, he did so on the wings of the Social Democratic Party (SDP), a party that is not among the top three in the country. Now that he has a stage, what will Adefisoye accomplish? Time will bear witness.