 “Reward for hard work”, according to a famous saying “is more work.” The recent elevation of Olumuyiwa Adejobi, a Chief Superintendent of Police, as the substantive Force Public Relations Officers (FPRO) has proven the truism in this quote. His appointment, earlier in February this year, had been applauded, particularly in recognition of his oratorical power and public communication skill. Those who have been following his career progression are quick to talk glowingly about his days at the Ogun State Police Command, Abeokuta; Zone II Command, Onikan, Lagos and Lagos State Command, Ikeja, Lagos, where he had proven his mettle as a gifted image maker. Since his appointment, Adejobi’s Facebook wall, in particular, has been flooded with congratulatory messages from family members, colleagues, friends and public-spirited individuals, many of whom had followed his career trajectory as a proactive image-maker of the police with a distinct record of exploits. He has been described by many as one of the best spokesmen the Nigeria’s Police Force has produced in many years. The string of industry awards that litters his ornate office and home is evident of his success story in what he does. He has bagged more than 200 awards, locally and internationally, in the course of his official duties and social engagements. Aside from individual wishes, his home state, the Osun State Government, has issued a statement, wherein Adejobi’s professionalism and dedication to duties were commended. Adejobi,  who is also a prince,  graduated in Archaeology and Geography from the University of Ibadan. He observed his National Youth Service Scheme (NYSC), in Anambra State, where he was eventually appointed as the Corps Liaison Officer (CLO) in Nnewi North Local Government. Thereafter, he returned to his alma mater and obtained a Masters’ Degree in Peace and Conflict Studies at the Institute of African Studies. He was enlisted as a Cadet Assistant Superintendent of Police and sent to the Nigeria Police Academy, Wudil, Kano State, for an 18-month training before his commissioning as an ASP. He has been a competent Police Officer in the Nigeria Police Force, holding offices including the parade commander, ceremonial parades, Ogun State (2006-2010) and the Operations Officer, Officer-In-Charge, Anti Bank Robbery and Anti Pipeline Vandalization Sagamu Division (2006-2008). He also acquired different professional certificates which include Conflict Handling Styles, from the University of Ibadan; and Mandatory Development Course by the Nigerian Institute of Public Relations. Other awards in his kitty include  Best Police Public Relations Officer in Nigeria by Security Watch Africa, Johannesburg, South Africa, November 2013 and  Best Police Public Relations Officer in West Africa by Security Watch Africa, Dubai, UAE, 2014, among others.