PREMIER LEAGUE Nigerian international, Alex Iwobi, received plaudits for his excellent display as Everton defeated Manchester United 1-0 to signal their resurgence to remain in the English topflight next season. The victory lifted Everton to 28 points from 30 games and still 17th on the log. Burnley who are playing Norwich today can still narrow the gap with Everton back to just one point if they win. Anthony Gordon’s 27th minute gaol boosted the Toffees’ chances of survival in the top flight. Iwobi played all 90 minutes of the game with  Liverpoolecho.co.uk giving the Super Eagles’ midfielder a match rating of 8/10. The medium praised his energy and work rate off the ball, as well as his skill, strength, pace, desire and attacking intent. “His energy and work-rate off the ball particularly were a shining example that every other Everton player should be following for the rest of the campaign. “This was arguably his best performance since arriving at the club – full of skill, strength, desire, pace and attacking intent,” Liverpoolecho.co.uk wrote of Iwobi’s performance in its Everton players’ ratings for the game against Manchester United. Everton goalkeeper, Jordan Pickford; midfielders, Fabian Delph and Anthony Gordon were the other Everton’s standout performers who also got 8/10 rating each. Iwobi has featured in 24 games in all competitions for Everton so far this season, scored three goals and recorded two assists. The Toffees are currently 17th in the Premier League table on 28 points from 30 matches. Meanwhile, Chelsea put a terrible week behind them to return to winning ways in devastating style with a six-goal demolition of Southampton. Having been beaten 4-1 at home to Brentford in the Premier League and then suffering a 3-1 defeat to Real Madrid, Chelsea bounced back in a manner that will give Thomas Tuchel encouragement his side can salvage their Champions League tie in Spain next week. Tuchel said before kick-off that “things are upside down” after two damaging results but his players responded by hitting the woodwork three times and scoring four in an astonishing first half at St Mary’s Stadium.