 Ramadan offers lessons that will serve the country well The fasting month which commenced last Saturday is traditionally a season of self-exertion and spiritual reward through physical deprivation, religious communion, and charitable work. It is a joyful season when families and friends get together to celebrate life and mutual bonds of affection, especially when they wake up early to eat their pre-dawn meal called Suhoor, and when they break their fast with a meal referred to as Iftar. While we congratulate Nigerian Muslims on this season, we feel obliged to point to some evergreen lessons of this great religious observance. Ramadan fasting is among the most visibly observed Muslim religious practices, alongside the five daily prayers and the annual Hajj in Saudi Arabia. It is obligatory for all Muslims of both genders from the age of puberty. Exempted from the fasting season are travellers, pregnant and breastfeeding mothers as well as the elderly and sick, though they are expected to make up the missing days any time after the Holy month. The essence of Ramadan is to expose the faithful to their spiritual roots while teaching them that true humanity does not equate to mere material possessions, passions, or physical cravings. This, we believe, is the real meaning of sharing with, and caring for, the needy and the less privileged that sets Ramadan apart from other religious festivities. The point is that if this spiritual core of man is recognised, it could lead to a positive change in our perspective on life: there would be no room for senseless materialism, greed, and primitive accumulation of wealth. Rather, there would be greater concern for the poor. The Ramadan fast, like the other four pillars of Islam, is aimed at promoting both the spiritual and material well-being of mankind. The message is simple to discern: When they can rein in their impulse for self-gratification and greedy accumulation of wealth, individuals are more likely to make their society a better place to live in, not only for themselves but also for their neighbours. That is a lesson that will serve us in Nigeria, especially in times like this. Indeed, Ramadan fast is a leveler of sorts, as both the rich and poor are exposed to hunger and thirst at the same time without any exception. Thus, after such self-denial, expectations are that the wealthy should become more sympathetic to the plight of millions of their less fortunate compatriots. Those in positions of authority should make policies and programmes that would alleviate the sufferings of the people. For Muslim folks, Ramadan is also a season of intense prayer, supplication to God and seeking His blessings and protection for family, friends, country, and humanity. The faithful are expected to shun all vices during the holy month and to instead emphasise good deeds, community service and brotherly affection for all mankind. The lessons of Ramadan should also be carried beyond the season because goodness and prayer are for all times, not just for one month in a year. This year’s Ramadan is coming at a very trying period for our country. The nation faces not only economic challenges but it is also being threatened almost on daily basis by the activities of sundry criminal cartels.  Those who plant bombs, kill, maim, rape and kidnap other citizens for worldly gains and to score political and ideological points should refrain from such nefarious activities and respect the sanctity of the holy season. It is also important for those who seek political offices to, in the spirit of the season, aspire only for the public good. Ramadan Kareem to all our Muslim brothers and sisters.