 Precious Ugwuzor Following the anticipated Ohanaeze Ndigbo Lagos branch election coming up this year, the Anioma people of Delta State in Lagos have endorsed the Isama of Onicha Ugbo, High Chief Michael Diji, as their Presidential candidate. It was reportedly the decision of the Igbo- speaking people of Delta State as was passed to the incumbent President of Ohanaeze Lagos State, Chief Solomon Aguene, during a courtesy visit by Chief Diji and his entourage at the Ohanaeze Secretariat in Surulere, Lagos. During the visit to Chief Aguene, they informed him that Diji has been nominated to vie for the position of the president as they strongly believe that it is their turn to produce the next Ohanaeze leader in the state. The stakeholders from the Igbo-speaking communities have unanimously agreed that all factors are considered. This was disclosed by the leader of the Delta Igbo speaking communities affiliated and recognised by Ohanaeze Ndi Igbo, Chief Chuks Chukwujindu Smith. “We, the Anioma people of Delta State, have unanimously endorsed High Chief Micheal Diji (Isama of Onicha Ugbo) as our authentic candidate for the office of the President of Ohanaeze Ndi lgbo, Lagos State.” Chief Smith explained that the people of Anioma, known as Njiko Ndi Anioma, is the only sociocultural organisation of Igbos of Delta State stock duly affiliated and recognised by Ohanaeze national body and the organisation. He stated that the group followed due process and unanimously adopted Chief Diji because he is such a man that will move Ohanaeze Lagos State higher. In response, Chief Aguene received them and gave him his blessings by wishing him success and best of luck in his mission. High Chief Diji, who is Isama of Onicha Ugbo, is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Corporate Accountants of West Africa. He also has MBA in Banking & Finance from Lagos State University and Doctorate degree in Financial Management and Corporate Governance from European American University. He is also a fellow of Institute of Management Consultants of Nigeria and a member of the Equipment leasing Association of Nigeria. A first class high chief in Delta State and has been a Patron of Ohanaeze Ndi Igbo, Lagos State, since 2018, Chief Diji was enlisted into the United Nations Volunteers for Peace in Africa (UNVPA) and rated under this category among African Union (AU) members. For his sterling accomplishments in the leasing industry in Nigeria, the PINK Awards had years back conferred the prestigious Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the Year prize on the Managing Director of First Choice Leasing, Chief Michael Diji. Same year this organisation won integrity in business award. The technocrat, who is married to Chief Mrs. Gloria Diji, has bagged many awards both local and international. In their bid to ensure a level playing ground and transparent election of Delta state representative that will contest the position of President, Ohanaeze Ndi Igbo, Lagos State,  the entire Anioma nation /Igbo speaking delta socio cultural organisations in Lagos assembled for the unveiling of the two major contestants, Chief Michael Diji and Apostle Patrick Nwanze and the nomination of the screening committee members. Present at the occasion were leaders of Anioma groups, which included Dr. Sylvan Ebigwe Mon (Iyase, Okpanam and past Vice-president General, Ohanaeze Ndi Igbo worldwide, Chief Chuks Smith , President Njiko Ndi Anioma and Vice President, Ohanaeze Ndi Igbo,  Lagos , Representatives of Oganishu  Ndi Anioma , Representatives of Anioma peoples forum,  the two major contestants,  Mr. Pat Nwanze and Chief Diji. The two contestants subsequently endorsed the processes and signed the election outcome adherence agreement. The election, which was very peacefully and transparently conducted and witnessed by election observers from Oganishu Ndi Anioma, Mrs. Obi, Mr. C. Nwoko  and Mr. Sonny Bobo saw the emergence of High Chief Michael Diji as the elected candidate. He was congratulated by his opponent who also said the closing prayer at the end of the election exercise. With this victory, Chief Michael Diji is now the duly elected representative of Delta state Ohanaeze and will contest the election of  President, Ohanaeze , Lagos state, having being endorsed by all and received the blessing of Obi Anioma, Obi Iwobi who was also present at the election.