 Oluwasegun Idowu Foundation, in collaboration with Foster Prime Schools in Lagos, last weekend concluded the Olusegun Coding Class camp which successfully trained over 120 participants across Lagos Island, and gifted free laptops and android phones to top winners. According to the Founder of the Foundation, Oluwasegun Idowu, also a frontline aspirant for the Lagos State House of Assembly, Ikoyi/Obalende LCDA, the pupils were drawn across the LCDA after distribution of forms and preliminary test were conducted for over 457 pupils, in which 120 pupils eventually emerged as participants admitted for programme. Addressing the journalists, Idowu said the essence of Olusegun Idowu Coding class was to give opportunity mostly to the children of less privileges that can’t avoid going to school where coding and technology is being thought. According to him, “I am a politician, but I want to be a politician to solution to the problem of the people. We know that the future is tech. We did code where participants were taught how to develop Apps, website, programmes, animation, and language coding. “The mainstream of wealth has always been natural resources-oil. Today, out of the ten richest in the world’s most of them are from tech-space. So, what future hold now is tech and this will reduce unemployment alarming rate in this country. “We have organization needs the skill of programmers, web developers, and they are not there to be found, the reasons this programme came up to start solving the problem before these children get to the age when they will need it.” Idowu noted further that, “we are usually bridging the gap for the government. This is responsibility of the government not what an individual can handle while urging the government to have coding facilities in every local government in Lagos State, where the children will be able to learn these skills and unemployment can be minimal.” Also speaking, Director of school, Foster Prime Schools, Patrick Foster noted that learn should be fun in order to aid children to easily remember what they are thought. According to him, “When Olusegun Idowu came to me for collaboration for coding class at Foster Prime Schools, being a politician, he considers first that children paramount importance because the future is tech. The future is about the children. This is the way politics at all level should be played, by building the future with technological skill-savvy. “The programme, held for two weeks in the school, provided electricity, solar power, accommodation, feeding, and sick bay as an away of supporting this program to give out the society.” The competition was organised from two categories of age: Age 6-10 and age 10-16. The two best participants won laptops and second best won Android phones. In the age 6-10 category; Craig Cornerstone won brand-new HP laptop and Olivia Foster won Android phone while from age 10-16 category; Suleimon Abduljebbar won brand-new HP laptop. While certificate was issued to all the participants for the two weeks coding training camp