 Bennett Oghifo A Real Estate Company, Afriland Properties Plc, has unveiled its plan to raise the bar for the real estate sector with a bevy of signature projects guaranteed to delight stakeholders and investors in the sector. Speaking at an interactive session with a cross-section of real estate stakeholders who paid a courtesy visit to the company’s head office in Lagos, MD/CEO Afriland Properties Plc, Uzo Oshogwe, stated, “As a purpose-driven organization with values anchored around excellence, execution, and enterprise, we are very intentional about our real estate offerings. Covid-19 has greatly affected the way we live, work and play; consequently, the consumer pattern has greatly changed to reflect present-day demands. Our ongoing projects will offer value to emerging markets.” Worthy of note is that these assets are designed as premium quality, low maintenance buildings with a great focus on sustainability. Users are in for an exciting experience as these assets are versatile and encourage flexibility of expression for consumers. Director Facilities and Property Management of Afriland Properties, Tokunbo Lawal, added that these assets would heighten user satisfaction and set a new standard for the real estate industry in the country. She said, “We are rolling out five real estate assets built with novel technology and expert craftsmanship that will offer high yield on investment and value to subscribers.” The Emporium, Trans-Amadi is a multipurpose facility set in the heart of the Garden City, Port-Harcourt. Upon completion, it will provide a 917sqm space fitted with first-class amenities for retail or office purposes. The Rouge by Afriland is a luxurious multistorey residential project built to satisfy the taste for the finer things of life. Nestled in the heart of Old Ikoyi, The Rouge is a collection of 13 luxury apartments comprising 2-bedroom, 3-bedroom, and 4-bedroom penthouses with a spectacular view. Middle-income earners are not left out. Iris Courts, set in the heart of Lagos State capital, Ikeja, is a residential facility intentionally designed for the modern-day professional who wants to get the most value for money. It comprises aesthetically appealing and functional apartment units that are highly sustainable and high-yielding investments. Afriland Estate, Abuja, is Afriland’s first estate development. The fully residential neighborhood is located within the fast-developing district in Karmo and will offer a one-stop smart community with all the modern amenities guaranteed to ensure comfort, class, and self-sustenance. The suburbs are not left out with the development of Afrishops Phase 2 in Abule Egba, Lagos. This multipurpose complex will upon completion boast of 21 shop units and 6 office units. Each office space has inbuilt restrooms and boasts high-quality finishing. As a firm dedicated to minimizing investor risk and anticipating their needs based on modern trends, Afriland has designed each of the facilities to provide maximum comfort, flexibility, and returns on investment using the latest technology that will reduce carbon emissions and environmental pollution. It will be recalled that Afriland Properties Plc renovated the former Raymond House, now Afriland Towers, transforming the previously moribund building into a prominent real estate asset on Broad Street. It also played a major role in the construction of Heirs Towers, Victoria Island. These projects, which have received acclaim in the real estate industry, were launched by the Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, and renowned philanthropist, Group Chairman Heirs Holdings, Tony Elumelu.