Blessing Ibunge A governorship aspirant under the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Rivers State, Senator Magnus Abe, has advised members of the party not to allow political schemers to divide them.Abe, who spoke yesterday in Okrika during the inauguration of Bola Ahmed Tinubu Support Vanguard (BATSV), was reacting to the recent endorsement of Tonye Cole as the consensus aspirant of the party ahead of the 2023 governorship election in Rivers State.The former member of the House of Representatives for the Rivers South East Senatorial District insisted that he is the best candidate that could return sanity in the state and rekindle the hope of the Rivers people.He warned that the APC should not make mistakes that would cost the party participation in the last election in the state.Abe said: “I have come out to say very clearly that I will stand for the office of governor of Rivers State. And I will present myself to rivers people. If Rivers people say that they do not want me and they want another partner, I will respect their decision.“If you choose the wrong partner, you will continue to suffer. But I am a democrat. If there is a process by which our people make a decision and it is not me, I will respect their decision. But if people go and gather and do kangaroo meetings and say it is this person or that person, I will not agree.“For APC to succeed in this state, we must have a clear, transparent, and honest process by which everybody who is entitled to have a say will genuinely have a say. If you have cooked up a process and you think that process will crown a king you will end up with a king that will never be crowned.“We must be very careful not to allow people to use their political schemes to divide us and keep us down because of what they want. We will provide a government that will work for you if you give us your support.“As far as it is possible, we must be able to work together to bring our party together. Let us not deceive ourselves; this party needs everybody to be able to succeed,” he said.The aspirant added: “I am telling Rivers people, if you allow me to serve you, I will serve you in a way that you have never been served before. I will be a leader that will put you first because you are the reason why we have a government.“Let me assure you all that the road ahead will not be easy. Challenging the powers that are established to transfer from one account to another will not be easy. But you have the power.”