 Bennett  Oghifo Mercedes-Benz AMG celebrates its 55th birthday – and customers can share in it with exclusive special models. The automaker said in a statement that following the “Edition 55” based on the G-Class, “Edition 55” versions are now available for the compact class: A 35 4MATIC Compact Saloon (WLTP: Fuel consumption combined 8.8-8.3 l/100 km, CO2 emissions combined 201-188 g/km)[1], A 35 4MATIC Saloon (WLTP: Fuel consumption combined 8.5‑8.0 l/100 km, CO2 emissions combined 194-182 g/km), CLA 35 4MATIC Coupé (WLTP: Fuel consumption combined 8.6-8.1 l/100 km, CO2 emissions combined 195-183 g/km) and CLA 35 4MATIC Shooting Brake (WLTP: Fuel consumption combined 8.8-8.3 l/100 km, CO2 emissions combined 201-189 g/km). Exclusive foiling in the design of the AMG crest is a reminder of the history of the sports car and performance brand. Other features such as the 19-inch AMG light-alloy wheels, the AMG fuel filler cap in silver chrome with “AMG” lettering and the trim element in dark aluminium “Edition 55” Design set strong accents and emphasise the individuality of the special models. The anniversary models can be ordered now until November 2022. The “Edition 55” models are characterised by their lavish equipment. At first glance, the elaborate AMG Aerodynamics Package generates attention. It includes a front apron with enlarged front splitter and additional flics, an AMG rear wing, side spoiler lips on the rear apron’s optical air outlets and the Blade diffuser, all in high-gloss black. The component parts developed in the wind tunnel improve the driving characteristics at high speeds and lay the foundation for even more driving performance. The fixed AMG rear wing is a clear statement of the desire for uncompromising driving dynamics. The AMG Night Package and the AMG Night package II also enhance the dynamic appearance of the “Edition 55” models. The front splitter and trim elements on the louvres in the outer air intakes, the inserts in the AMG side sill trims, the side sill trim strip, the window line trim strip and the exterior mirror housings are finished in high-gloss black. In addition, there are tailpipe trims in black chrome and heat-insulating dark tinted glass. Lamellae of the AMG-specific radiator grille and type badges on the boot lid and wings, each in high-gloss black, complete the exclusive appearance. Other distinguishing features of the “Edition 55” special models for the compact class include the paint finish in cosmos black metallic or digital white metallic. The colour scheme of the paintwork on both sides of the vehicle with the traditional AMG emblem and suggested AMG rhombus runs from grey to transparent to match. The 19-inch AMG multi-spoke light-alloy wheels with a matt titanium grey paint finish and a high-sheen rim flange provide an exciting contrast. The AMG fuel filler cap in silver chrome with AMG lettering also demonstrates great attention to detail. The interior is characterised by the contrast of black and red. The AMG Performance seats are upholstered in two-tone classic red/black leather. The AMG Performance steering wheel in DINAMICA microfibre with “Edition 55” badge and black 12 o’clock marking commemorates the 55th birthday of the brand. AMG door sill panels with red illuminated AMG lettering and black AMG floor mats made of high-quality velour with red contrasting stitching and “Edition 55” lettering woven in red visibly enhance the special models right down to the footwell. The exclusive ambience of the interior is rounded off by the AMG brushed aluminium trim elements in the dark “Edition 55” design with accents in black/red and the AMG logo. The scope of delivery also includes a customised AMG Indoor Car Cover in elegant black with a silver-coloured AMG logo at the height of the upper edge of the windscreen. With its breathable outer panelling made of tear-resistant synthetic fibre fabric and antistatic inner fabric made of flannel, it protects the vehicle in the garage from dust and scratches. Founded in 1967 by engineers Hans Werner Aufrecht and Erhard Melcher, the company has continued to build on its position as a highly successful performance and sports car brand through numerous successes in motorsport and the development of unique road cars. Today the Affalterbach-based company is a wholly owned subsidiary of Mercedes-Benz Group AG and is the Group’s sporting spearhead. For each of the now more than 2,000 employees the focus is on the brand promise “Driving Performance”, which unites the core strengths of AMG: cutting-edge technology and a passion for dynamic, emotionally appealing products. The current Mercedes-AMG portfolio comprises more than 50 vehicles with a power range from 225 kW (306 hp) to 620 kW (843 hp). The selection ranges from derivatives in various body styles to completely independently developed sports cars such as the Mercedes-AMG GT 4-Door model and the new Mercedes‑AMG SL. The range of powertrains has also been continuously developed in line with market requirements and customer wishes and currently offers efficiency-optimised combustion engines with four, six or eight cylinders. In addition, Mercedes‑AMG is consistently pursuing the path of the Future of Driving Performance: Hybrids with an independent drive layout and technology from Formula 1 are offered under the E PERFORMANCE label. The portfolio also includes all-electric AMG derivatives based on the Group’s own EVA2 platform. In the near future, completely independent battery-electric AMG models will also follow, which will be based on the new electrical architecture (AMG.EA) which has been developed completely in-house.