 David-Chyddy Eleke Suspected gunmen have allegedly kidnapped 10 persons, suspected to be herders in Anambra State, with a demand for N4 million and an AK-47 rifle as ransom. The Chairman of South East Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria (MACBAN), Alhaji Gidado Siddiki revealed the demands at a session with journalists yesterday. At the session, Siddiki explained that the incident happened at Obene community in Ogbaru Local Government Area, and that those kidnapped were his members. Siddiki said the incident took place at Fulani settlement at exactly 1:30 a.m. on Saturday, while the herders and their cattle were asleep. “The cattle herders were attacked at their settlement while asleep, and their herds numbering about 300 forcefully taken away by the gunmen numbering about 40. “The men invaded the area with sophisticated weapons, including guns, cutlasses, sticks and charms. The kidnappers have established contact with their victims’ families, demanding N4 million and one gun as ransom. “As I speak to you now, I have reported the incident to the Police and DSS for prompt action,” the chairman said. He appealed to the kidnappers to release his members and their cows, stressing that those kidnapped were mere herders, who were struggling to eke out a living. Meanwhile, the state Police Public Relations Officer, Anambra State Police Command, Mr. Ikenga Tochukwu, confirmed the incident Tochukwu, Deputy Superintendent of Police, urged the leadership of Miyetti Allah in the state to come up with more information that would enable the Police to commence aggressive investigation into the matter. He said: “We are aware of the incident, but we want the Miyetti Allah leadership to supply us with more information, since the Kidnappers have established ransom contact with the victims’ families.” He assured them that the state Commissioner of Police, CP Echeng Echeng and other security agencies in the state would do everything possible to rescue the victims from their abductors.