 Benjamin Nworie in AbakalikiA Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential aspirant in the 2023 general election and former Governor of Anambra State, Mr. Peter Obi, Tuesday assured Nigerians that he has the capacity to fix the country from total collapse if elected president in 2023.Obi, who met with PDP delegates and other officials of the party at Salt Lake Hotel, Abakaliki, explained that Nigerians are not in need of a concensus candidate but a problem solver that can fix Nigeria.He added that Nigerians are looking forward to having somebody that can make Nigeria productive and pull Nigerians out of poverty. The former governor said: “Nigeria is insecured, Nigeria is not unified and Nigeria is unproductive and it is collapsing.“Going by the enormity of Nigeria’s problems, they are not looking for a concensus candidate. They are looking forward to somebody who will start solving their problems.“The firm duty of a leader is to be a problem solver. Nigerians are looking forward to somebody that can make Nigeria productive and start getting Nigerians to be pulled out of poverty. That’s what Nigerians are looking for, not concensus candidate. So, I want to correct that.“Even the Northerners; everybody has a problem in Nigeria. Nigeria as it is today is insecured, Nigeria is not unified and Nigeria is unproductive. “It is collapsing. They are looking for a fixer. Somebody who will start creating wealth, not about where is this. Where you come from is important, because some people can say we are looking for equity and justification, which is necessary in a diverse country.“But most importantly, we want someone who will start creating wealth in the Nigeria.“You need to check my track record. I’m a trader. I have operated in the corporate world. I have been a governor. That’s the record you need to check. You don’t need to ask me. Just check my trajectory. And I have been everywhere in the world and I believe I can fix Nigeria.“I maintain that PDP has an array of candidates who are qualified and competent and everything. But within even competent people, in ‘seria one’ leagues, they are still the best.”