RingTrue BY Yemi Adebowale  One of the reasons insurgents are having a free rein across Nigeria is because the men and women around President Muhammadu Buhari are not telling him the truth about his frightening failings. Many of them, whose opinions would have helped this country, have become merchants of lies, rolling out imaginary security achievements while massaging the egos of Buhari and his kitchen cabinet. Outside the government, many have also cowardly chosen to remain silent. Simply put: They are unwilling to speak truth to power. As a result, killings and kidnappings have persisted in beloved Nigeria, amid government’s ineptitude. The Nigerian state has never been this weak. That was why the terrorists that bombed a Kaduna-bound train last Monday confidently released a video mocking the Nigerian state before freeing one of their captives, the Managing Director of the Bank of Agriculture, Alwan Ali-Hassan. The attack left eight people dead, while many others were either abducted or injured. Two others died in the hospital from gunshot injuries sustained during the attack. Fourteen days after this crime against humanity, not a single one of these bastards has been apprehended. This is how low Buhari has brought Nigeria. In the midst of these shenanigans, the Jama’atu Nasir Islam (JNI), the umbrella body for Northern Muslims, is doing very well for Nigeria. The JNI has remained consistent, telling truth to authority on its security failings. Its latest dispatch to the Buhari government on insecurity, following the attack on the Kaduna-bound train, speaks volumes. It declared last Monday that any government unable to safeguard the lives and property of its citizens, as enunciated in Section 33 (1) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, has lost the moral justification to be in power. The  section mentioned states that “every person has a right to life, and no one shall be deprived intentionally of his life, save in execution of the sentence of a court in respect of a criminal offence of which he has been found guilty in Nigeria.” JNI’s assertion is heartwarming. It is the type of statement that might perhaps jolt the Buhari government into action against killings in this country. The next three paragraphs are my main takeaway from the statement of the religious body headed by the Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Sa’ad Abubakar III: “In Islam and by all global standards, the essence of government and governance is solely to protect the five principal cardinal rights of the human race, the most important of which is life! “That is why Allah (SWT) declared in the Glorious Quran that if a single soul is killed without just cause, then it is as if the entire humanity is wiped off the face of the earth. We claim to be people of faith and all these occurrences are allowed without any form of prompt intervention. Why? “Terrorists are now becoming bolder and more belligerent by the day. In fact, terrorists do what they wish knowing that there is no gun power or authority that will defy them…Why are attacks experienced all over the place and continuing unabated without any deterrence? Why can’t the government proactively take the battle to the criminals’ hideouts and wipe them off? Why should the government wait until people are attacked, lives and properties lost for them to strike and be issuing empty orders and usual condemnation?” Indeed, governments exist to protect human lives and any regime that can’t do this is a failure. Human lives are sacred and must be protected. This is the truth all forces of good must persistently hammer on the head of this current federal government. Buhari is a big failure in this area of securing Nigerians. The situation in the last seven years is unprecedented. This federal government must wake up. Another voice in this drive to hammer the truth on the head of President Buhari is Shiekh Nuru Khalid, the Chief Imam of Apo Legislative Quarters Mosque, Abuja, who was sacked for delivering a sermon challenging the failings of the Buhari government in the area of security. Khalid showed a lot of courage, calling out Buhari for failing to tame the escalating killings in the country. He also flayed the President over his failure to visit places and people affected by insecurity. The cleric said: “Everyone condemned the incident, except the bandits. So, condemnation is not enough. The President should visit the state to sympathise with the victims. The President has been to Kaduna for campaigns but couldn’t go to the state on a sympathy visit.” Khalid urged Nigerians not to vote in 2023 elections if the killings across the country continue. Saidu Muhammed Dansadau, Chairman of the Apo mosque’s management committee who defended the Sheik’s sack, accused him of inciting public outrage. Dansadau is one of those influential Nigerians unwilling to speak truth to Buhari. A confused Dansadau chose to sacrifice Khalid. Too bad! But Khalid’s response to his sack will hunt Dansadau and his cohorts forever. The cleric remarked:  “God is the most powerful. He gives (enthrones) and takes away power (dethrones) from whomever He wishes.” This cleric has vowed to continue speaking the truth, daring those who perceived his sermon as inciting to show evidence. “My sack is a reflection of how Nigeria is today. Many people are hiding under the cover of religion to perpetrate all manners of unwholesome acts…If it’s a sin to ask for secured Nigeria, I’m ready to go to hell,” declared Khalid. This is good news for lovers of truth. The other good news is that Khalid has been appointed to lead another Juma’at mosque in Abuja. We need more of men like this if we want to surmount terrorism. The Speaker, Borno State House of Assembly, Abdulkarim Lawan is another voice of truth that recently caught my attention. Lawan joined in drawing attention to all the lies that no part of Nigeria is under the control of Boko Haram and ISWAP.  He affirms that Guzamala and Kukawa local government areas of Borno State are under the control of Boko Haram and appealed to the federal government and the military authorities to ensure the recapture of these areas. Lawan’s words were penetrating: “The entire Guzamala Local Government Area where I hail from is still under the control of Boko Haram as there is no presence of troops or civilians as I speak…There is no single existence of civil authority in Guzamala, not to even talk of military presence in the council’s headquarter and its surrounding communities. “Our people including our district heads, stakeholders who are here with us are still taking refuge in camps and host communities located in Nganzai, Monguno and other neighbouring local government areas including Maiduguri metropolis in the last six years. Our people are desperate to go back home…I insist that Guzamala is still a no -go -area.” Only the truth can set Borno free from Boko Haram and ISWAP. It’s great having Lawan’s voice to the truth that Boko Haram and ISWAP are alive and kicking in Borno State; that terrorists control territories in Nigeria. In Borno State, 20 of the 27 local government areas are not safe. This is the truth the Buhari government must face and act on appropriately. Senator Bala Ibn Na’Allah is likewise doing a good job, saying the truth about territories controlled by terrorists in Kebbi State, with massive killing and wanton destruction of property. Sakaba and Danko/Wasagu LGs are the most affected. This week, news from the war front was not positive for the security chiefs who continue to wallow in deceit that they have the capacity to end killings in Nigeria. The terrorists again took the battle to the military, killing 17 soldiers at a military base in Polwire, Birnin Gwari Local Government Area of Kaduna State. No fewer than 44 others were injured during the attack. The terrorists came in hundreds and overwhelmed the soldiers. The killers were also in Tsafe Local Government Area of  Zamfara State last Sunday, killing and maiming. A biological son of the Zamfara State Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, retired Deputy Inspector General of Police (DIG) Mamman Tsafe was among those killed in Tsafe town. Last Tuesday, rampaging terrorists attacked Gidan Daudu village, Kankara LG of Katsina State, killing a popular businessman, Sale Auta. They also abducted the late Auta’s teenage daughter, Aisha, and several others. The truth is that our security agents lack the capacity to tame these terrorists and end killings of innocent Nigerians. We can all see the result of our gallant security agents. Only this truth can set Nigeria free from the servitude of terrorists. Technology, intelligence, quality equipment and quality manpower are necessities for taming insurgents. Use of drones for intelligence gathering and attacks is also vital. Our security agencies lack these. The Nigerian government must seek help from climes that have successfully tamed terrorists. This country must seek help from private military contractors from these climes. I will always recommend Israeli military contractors. This is the way forward for Nigeria. Rivers State NLC’s Blow for Wike That Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State is campaigning for the presidential ticket of the PDP is perturbing. Wike wants to be President of Nigeria? This is what this country has been reduced to. A man that has crippled Rivers State with debt is talking about becoming president of Nigeria. Perhaps, this man called Wike is campaigning for something else; certainly, not the presidency of this country. Wike, a dictator, has spent the last seven years brutalising everybody in Rivers State. There is so much pain in this state. This governor has been building flyovers at the expense of human beings. He has been building very expensive multi-lane city roads while public hospitals and schools are in tatters. The citizens lack access to things as basic as public water supply and drivable inner streets. In this same Rivers State, where new flyovers have gulped over N100 billion, the state’s pensioners are struggling to survive due to huge unpaid annuities. Many have died waiting for pension. Thousands of youths in Rivers State are roaming the streets unemployed. Many have become touts due to joblessness. Wike has failed to harness these resources. He is only interested in building flyovers. This governor is unaware that human capacity development is vital. Wike seems to have forgotten that he promised to employ 10,000 teachers during his campaigns in 2019. When will this happen? Perhaps, when he wins PDP’s Presidential ticket. The response of the Nigeria Labour Congress in Rivers State to Wike’s Presidential ambition gives a clear picture of this clown aspiring to be the president of Nigeria. The Rivers State NLC Chairman, Mrs Beatrice Itubo remarks: “We have seen what is happening here in Rivers State. Pensioners have not been paid their gratuity since the inception of this administration. Workers have not been promoted since the inception of this administration. “Charity they say begins at home. Let him (Wike) come home and pay retirees their gratuities, pay pension arrears, promote workers and then employ more workers. The system is empty. It is not just to run from here and then you want to go to Abuja. There in Abuja, will you kill all the workers in Nigeria?” Itubo was apt. Wike should not be part of any decent society. He is a Fascist and will be worse than Benito Mussolini, if he moves anywhere close to the Presidency of this country. Anybody talking about a Wike Presidency is talking about fascism emerging in Nigeria. May the circumstance never happen.