* Insists recommendation subject to NEC’s decisionAdedayo Akinwale, Kingsley Nwezeh in Abuja and Nume Ekeghe in LagosThe Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) yesterday said it would convene a National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting to consider the report of its zoning committee. THISDAY had reported that the opposition party’s zoning committee chaired by Governor of Benue State, Samuel Ortom had recommended that the presidential ticket of the party be thrown open. The recommendation has however received backlash from party stakeholders and socio-political groups across the country. However, the National Publicity Secretary of the party, Mr.  Debo Ologunagba while featuring on ‘The Morning Show,’ on Arise News Channel, yesterday, said whatever was the recommendation of the zoning committee of the party, it would be subject to the ratification of the NEC of the party. He recalled that NEC of the party decided to set up a committee of 37-member committee to consider the issue of zoning of the presidential position and other positions at its last meeting.Ologunagba said, “Because we are a party that follows its procedure and processes, the committee has made its recommendation and the recommendation will be forwarded to the National Working Committee (NWC), which will thereafter send it to the NEC for determination one way or the other. “He insisted that what the committee did was to recommend, saying, “that is exactly what it is, recommendation at this stage.”Ologunagba added: “When it (the report) is passed over to the NWC, then a date for the NEC meeting will be slated for the consideration of that report.“We are in the process of doing that. As soon as the report is delivered to the NWC, which I believe in the next couple of days – maybe in one or two days, then we can convene the meeting of the NEC for the consideration of the recommendation therein and then to make a decision one way or the other.”All the recommendations made in there are subject to NEC decision. “The party spokesperson stressed that the PDP remains an organic party that has its own processes, rules and regulations, which are subject to modifications, as the party evolves with the times.Ologunagba said it would be premature to speak on the report he has not seen on whether the party had decided to throw its presidency open or not, noting that the best thing to do was to wait for the party to come up with a position.According to him, “what we should do right now is to hold on for the party to come up with a position. “Thereafter you can begin to consider what are the issues contained therein or what are the issues not there. Right now it will be premature for me to speak on if it happens or if it doesn’t happen.”Asked if the interest of the party conflicts with the interest of the nation, what should take precedence, Ologunagba assured that the NEC of the party would consider the mood of the nation in taking decision on the recommendations of the zoning committee.Ologunagba added: “For us, the first thing for any Nigerian is the corporate existence of Nigeria, the unity and the development of this country and I think that should override any other consideration.”And of course PDP has always been very sensitive to Nigerians. That is why in our constitution, one of the positions of policy of the party is the unity of the country. And what you should do, you have to have buy-in. Every part must be involved, they can find their own future connected to that organisation.”PDP is very sensitive and I can assure you that in considering the recommendations, which of course as at this point I don’t have, the NEC, I’m sure in the wisdom of the party will take that decision both for the party and more importantly for the nation.”The PDP spokesperson described the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) as an irresponsible and uneducated government that does not understand what Nigerians are going through. Ologunagba added: “When you don’t want the heat, then don’t go near the kitchen. APC said they have a change to change this country and then, nearly seven years after, the APC continues to see the nightmare of PDP everywhere they go. When they can even sleep, it must be PDP.”A bad workman complains about his tool, a hopelessly irredeemable one complains about others. The APC has become an irresponsible, hopelessly irremediable, that everything it talks about is lie.”