 Ugo Aliogo Leading sports and digital entertainment company, KingMakers, has announced today the appointment of new Chief Operations Officer for BetKing Nigeria, Adim Isiakpona. The Company in a statement said the new BetKing Nigeria COO, Isiakpona has spent over 16 years holding senior leadership positions across sales, marketing, and digital disciplines at established and well-known brands such as Google, Intel Corporation, and Hewlett Packard across Europe, the Middle East, and Africa (EMEA) region. The statement said Isiakpona who most recently served as the head of sales at Google looking after West Africa, will look to strengthen the Nigerian operations of the business as well as to further expand its presence in Africa. The statement revealed that in his most recent role at Google, his efforts were largely focused on accelerating digital transformation maturity for customers in Africa which has led to incremental growth in Google’s Ad revenue and the growth of digital adoption across communities in Africa over the course of four years. The statement also noted that prior to his role at Google, Isiakpona was Intel’s Head of Marketing, Communication and Programs for Africa, Middle East and Turkey, leading Intel’s PC acceleration project in Africa which delivered strong growth records in the adoption per household across Nigeria, Ghana, and Kenya, and ensured sustainability to an increasingly demanding marketplace. The statement revealed that in driving the company’s strategy, the new appointment would look to strengthen the user experience of the platform, strengthen operations and drive further expansion of the business. The arrival of Isiakpona comes as BetKing, a company of Kingmakers, focuses on driving further expansion and cementing commitment to the African continent, and Nigeria in driving the company’s vision – to develop and radically expand the growth of Bluebloods in Nigeria and Africa, and make BetKing, the preferred sports and entertainment platform company by 2025. Commenting on the appointment, the Chief Executive Officer, BetKing Nigeria, Neil Bothma, said, “We are thrilled to welcome Adim to the team, and we look forward to working with him to deliver on our mission – to the place “Where Africa Plays” by providing the right technology, radical innovation and uncompromised service to all our customers. Adim brings experience and deep insights of the sub-region, which will be useful in driving the growth of the Nigeria business.” In his remarks, Isiakpona expressed appreciation to the stakeholders at KingMakers. He said: “I wish to thank all our stakeholders and everyone at KingMakers for making me feel so welcome. BetKing Nigeria has done incredible work in such a short period of time, and I am looking forward to working with the team to build on the success we’ve recorded, and together, drive KingMakers’ strategy of becoming Africa’s preferred sports and digital entertainment platform company. Today, Kingmakers is one of the leading Sports and Digital Entertainment platforms in Africa. Using innovative technology, delivered through our online and agency platforms, we bring fans and communities closer to the sports and games they love.