 Indigenous Information Communication Technology, ICT training institute, New Horizons Nigeria has partnered with Baptist Mission Schools to test the knowledge of Nigerian students on coding and robotics. The organisers explained that the challenge was necessary to promote technopreneur skills among Nigerian children so they can be at par with the contemporaries across the globe. In testing their ability, participating students working in team were presented with a task of designing robot and projects, with the help of a mentor who trained them on a regular basis. Thereafter, each team submitted a design, business plan, and video pitch of their projects. The competition started with 3,782 students at the school levels in which 117 students qualified for the zonal levels while 47 students qualified for the finals. Speaking at the event, MD/CEO New Horizons, Tim Akano noted that future of Nigeria lies in the expertise with the fourth industrial technologies which included coding and robotics. He said, “It’s on that basis that New Horizons Nigeria partnered with Baptist Mission School to develop the yearly coding and robotics competition as the first phase for comprehensive fourth industrial competition amongst students. This will include other mission schools like Redeemers, Catholic, Anglican, Methodist, and Deeper life. We achieve all of this with our strategic partnership with international vendors like EC-Council, PMI, ISAACA, and Oracle.” Earlier, the Director of Baptist Mission Schools, Dr. Tide Olalere, said “We are poised to ensure our children are not left behind in the 21st century ICT education.” According to Olalere, qualified schools were judged based on app prototype, presentation slide, business plan words for code/robot description, creativity, design, potential usefulness, technical skill and presentation. The grand finale of the challenge held at Bowen University in Osun State with stakeholders from the education and ICT sectors in attendance. Winners were awarded cash prizes at every stage of the competition and a certificate of participation.