 Emmanuel Addeh The Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) yesterday commiserated with the people and government of Imo State, over last weekend’s fire which was reported to have consumed over 100 persons. Key government agencies operating in the sector are yet to make statement on the incident. These include the Nigerian National Petroleum Company (NNPC) Limited, the Nigerian Upstream Petroleum Regulatory Commission (NUPRC) and the Nigerian Midstream and Downstream Petroleum Regulatory Authority  (NMDPRA). Many victims were burnt beyond recognition during the incident which occurred after an illegal refinery exploded at Abaezi forest in the Ohaji-Egbema Local Government Area of the state. The damage to fishing and farming caused by the oil industry over the decades and the failure to share its wealth has led some to find other ways to make money. Illegal refining is attractive as in parts of the oil-rich Niger Delta as it is seen as being relatively easy to pull off, despite efforts to halt the practice. Dozens of people were thought to have been working at the illegal refining plants when they were caught in the huge fire. While offering his condolences to the families of the victims on Sunday, President Muhammadu Buhari had demanded that those responsible for the explosions must be caught and brought to justice. The authorities have been struggling to curb the proliferation of illegal plants where stolen crude oil is refined. The president ordered security forces to intensify efforts to shut the illegal refineries. But in a letter to the Governor of Imo State, Senator Hope Uzodinma, OPEC’s Secretary General, Dr Sanusi Barkindo decried the scale of destruction caused by the incident, saying that the oil producers’ organisation, received the sad news with deep shock. Stressing that the loss of lives at the site was difficult to accept, Barkindo, on behalf of OPEC commiserated with the “heroic” people of Imo state over the deaths and injuries suffered by those impacted by the blast. “It was with deep shock and sadness that I learned about the tragic loss of lives following a fire at an illegal oil refining depot in the Abaezi forest in the Ohaji-Egbema Local Government Area in Imo State, close to the border with Rivers State. “On behalf of the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), I would like to extend our deepest sympathies to you and the people of the heroic people of the Imo State at this difficult time. “Loss of life on this scale is very difficult to comprehend and our thoughts and prayers go to the families and friends of those afflicted by this tragedy, as well as those recovering from their injuries. “We stand shoulder-to-shoulder with all who grieve at this difficult time. We will also pray for the safety of the emergency response teams.  May the Almighty give the bereaved the fortitude to bear this unbearable loss. “Please accept, Your Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration and esteem,” the Nigerian-born OPEC chief noted.