 Dare to Inspire (DTI), an initiative set up to empower, enlighten and elevate young (Muslim) women and youth across the globe, will be presenting her 6th Annual Mentoring Session scheduled to take place via online Webinar on April 9th, 2022. This year’s session like the previous editions will provide platform to discuss contemporary topics affecting today’s women and youth. Attendees of the online event will have the opportunity to observe, interact and learn from outstanding women leaders and role models in the health and wellness industry. The theme for this 6th edition is “HEALTH, HAPPINESS AND HOLISTIC WELLNESS”. This year’s event will feature leading women leaders and speakers such as Dr. Maymunah Yusuf Kadiri, a multiple award-winning mental health physician and advocate; Summayyah Sadiq-Ojibara, a Psychotherapist, Counsellor, Life Coach and Writer (Australia). Others are Hafsah Olufunmilola Amen-Ikoyi, a Certified Health Coach and Clinical Pharmacist, and Dr. Bilikis Jumoke Oladimeji, a Physician and Senior Director Healthcare Informatics (USA). The convener of the event Bunmi Ghiazat Adebimpe, who is also a professional coach, holistic counselling therapist and visual creative, while speaking at the announcement on Tuesday, said: “I am super-excited about this year’s event because it is a special one that is close to my heart. More importantly, the disruptive changes that occurred in the last couple of years have directly or indirectly taught us the tremendous importance of taking care of ourselves, living a healthy lifestyle with optimal wellbeing and the appreciation of life itself. This year’s edition will be an integration of unique minds exploring health, happiness, dimensions of wellness and a fusion of knowledge and experiences for attaining holistic wellness and promoting positive practices. I am certain it will be as engaging and thought-provoking as previous editions with our calibre of experienced international health and wellness leaders that will be speaking from different parts of the world. ”The annual mentoring session creates opportunity for young women, youth, professionals, and entrepreneurs to be guided and inspired with the knowledge and life experiences of our seasoned leaders. The theme for last year’s edition was “A leap of Faith During Unprecedented Changes” and it had in attendance, experienced women leaders such as Maryam Lemu (International Motivational Speaker), Aisha Augie (Special Adviser to the Federal Minister of Finance on Digital Communications Strategy, Lola Yunus (Founder of Lola Yunus Coaching, LYC) and Bisma Anwar (Licensed Mental Health Counsellor and Therapist, USA). They shared astounding insights on perception change, holding on to the abundance of faith in the light of the unknown and making sense of resistance and distractions that come with disruptions, new expectations, transitions and change in the present reality. The event is in partnership with Superheads International Limited, Laroche Foundation, VPcube Studios, The Accubin, Impreme Studios, Fesoda Integrated Services, The MPower Circle, Mustaeina TV, Bedouin, Four23 Photography, Rubbin Minds, The Umm Fariha Network, Waqhill Associates, HalTV, KYBevents, DeenTalks Nigeria, Hadiya Home&Lifestyle and ARABEL Exclusive Islamic Materials Ltd. Official media partners include YNaija, Expoze Nigeria and Dotts Media House. The official hashtag for the 6th edition is #DTI2022. DARETOINSPIRE(DTI), is a not-for-profit initiative that aims to empower, enlighten and elevate young (Muslim) women and youth across the globe. DTI’s key mission is to invest in the life of young women, influence their positivity towards life, improve their self-confidence and strengthen their self-worth which ultimately helps to engender growth, create equal opportunities and enhance global economic development.  The annual DTI Mentoring Session brings together successful business leaders, leading industry experts and women role models to inspire and share their experiences, success stories and to discuss other contemporary topics affecting today’s young women and youth globally.