 Ferdinand Ekechukwu Boy Spyce, the latest addition to Mavin Records is perceived a talent with a clear brand direction. He has been buzzing with freestyle videos in the Nigerian music underground before he was grabbed by MAVIN due to his iconic voice and qualities deployed on top songs covers of his. He joins label mates Rema, Ayra Starr, Ruger, Ladipoe and others. Tiwa Savage, Wande Coal, Reekado Banks and Iyanya are among Mavin’s notable artistes of the recent past. Born Ugbekile David Osemeke, Boy Spyce rose to fame after his freestyle video for Wizkid s hit song “Essence” featuring Tems went viral. His silky, searing vocals likened to Victony’s, Buju’s or Fireboy’s, and described as an evolution of Highlife and Apala singers. To a music journalist and critic, the beauty of his voice type is that when he sings, there is a leftover melody hanging behind his cadences, and vocal exertion. In addition to his natural talent, he underwent an intensive training under the tutelage of Don Jazzy, the record label owner. When then he was activated on the 14th of April, 2022, the legendary Nigerian music producer said “After being trained in the Mavin Academy by the best in the game, world please help us welcome and follow the newest addition to the Mavin Records family.” He revealed that he has kept a close watch on the promising talent since 2019. “Most people are just looking for one quick viral moment instead of going through proper artist development. We could have rushed and activated prematurely when he had this moment but he showed great restraint and chose to stick to his training. He has been recording judiciously since I first messaged him on Christmas Day 2019,” the iconic producer expressed. An excited Boy Spyce took to his Instagram to express appreciation. “A long-time dream that has been backed with hard work, patience, dedication and consistency is born. I feel blessed and elated to be going on this journey with you by my side,” Spyce said. “Thank you Don Jazzy and the Mavin Records family and everyone who has been a part of my journey.” The newest addition comes with a genre-hopping 5-song eponymous EP and accompanying lead single “Nobody”, a feel-good and bouncy romantic ballad and the music video. The rest of the EP sees the Lagos-born and raised artist juggling light guitars, afro-fusion beat work, and R&B elements. Boy Spyce’s self-titled debut EP discusses love, life and sex, and is available for streaming and download across all major digital platforms.