 Nigerians are known to be avid travellers to the UK and the United States. For years, the United Kingdom is regarded as second home to many Nigerians but in the last 10 years Dubai has become the major destinations for Nigerians. In fact, in 2016 during the economic recession when there was visible decrease in international passenger traffic, attendants in the popular Dubai Mall complained to a Nigerian visitor that they missed Nigerians, lamenting that they were no more coming as they used to do. But since then there has been an upsurge in the number of Nigerians that travel to Dubai. The former President of the National Association of Nigeria Travel Agents (NANTA) and Managing Director of Finchglow Travels, Bankole Bernard, told THISDAY in a telephone interview that there are many factors that make Dubai attractive destination. “It is when a place is attractive that people travel to it. It is not only Nigerians that go to Dubai. The place is attracting the world because they have things the world want to see. The place is a haven of sorts. Dubai tourism is currently in Nigeria with different officials representing the entire economy. So they go their way to sensitise people and bring them to their country. In Dubai crime rate is zero. They fight crime with everything they have. They pay their police very well. So Dubai is like a safe haven. They don’t play politics with their economy. They constantly strive to be number one in everything. They get the best man to do the job, whether he is Russian, American, Indian or Nigerian. They have leaders that have the country at heart. They have people that love their country. This is the reason why Dubai is attracting the world. When you go to that country you see a country that is willing to grow. They will continue to attract the world to them because they have what the world need in terms of security, comfort etc. “They have started giving people 10 years visa, including some Nigerians. Their corporate income tax is seven per cent; Nigeria’s is 10 per cent. Tell me why people will not be willing to invest in Dubai? If you run away with their money they repatriate you. They have global agreement, they can repatriate anybody from anywhere in the world,’ Bernard said. According to Dubai Tourism, about 185, 000 Nigerians visited Dubai in 2018. The US for long has the highest number of Nigerian travellers, followed by Saudi Arabia, but travel experts posit that Dubai could be number one if Nigerian that travel to DXB airport in Dubai, Sharjah and Abu Dhabi are put together. Dubai has about 30 per cent of the number of Nigerians on international destination. The current President of NANTA Mrs. Susan Akporaiye said that the reason why people are travelling to Dubai is because the visa is easy to obtain. When Emirates was not coming to Nigeria, Egypt Air was a second option for Nigerians but that had changed now because Egypt has strict visa policies and delays in visa issuance and sometimes Nigerians are denied visa out rightly. “But for Dubai, it takes between 48 to 72 hours to obtain your visa and even if there is going to be denial, applicants know in two or three days’ time,” she said. Dubai has 12 top attractions that continue to beckon at visitors. These include Dubai’s landmark building and major tourist attraction, which is the Burj Khalifa, which at 829.8 meters is the tallest building in the world and the most famous of the city’s points of interest. For most visitors, a trip to the observation deck on the 124th floor here is a must-do while in the city. The views across the city skyline from this bird’s-eye perspective are simply staggering. There is also the beach club with its azure blue waters and sparkling sunshine; Dubai can never have enough beach clubs. Known as Bla Bla, it is described as an exciting concept that combines prime sunshine lounging with foodie thrills with no less than 20 lounges, three restaurants and one beach club to enjoy. It is located at Jumeirah Beach Residences opposite Bluewaters Island. There is also Dubai’s Theatre of Digital Art at Madinat Jumeirah, whichgives famous artwork a modern twist with advanced technology and immersive storytelling. It combines three formats of digital art including multimedia exhibitions, contemporary immersive installations and art in virtual reality. Spread over 1,800sqm, the venue displays digital shows of classical art, accompanied by music, visual effects and surround sound. Exhibitions change regularly, adding fresh perspectives with every visit. There is also the Palm Fountain, Dubai, where a visitor can watch water sway to the beat. Spanning an area of 14,000sqft, the Palm Fountain is also Dubai’s only multicolored one. More than 3,000 LED lights set the scene for a vibrant visual spectacle where colourful water jets shoot 105m high and dance to the tune of popular Khaleeji, pop, classic and international hits. The Palm Fountain comes alive daily with shows taking place every 30 minutes between sunset to midnight. Visitors are expected to arrive early to spend the day at the Pointe or enjoy dinner at one of the venue’s waterside restaurants for the best views. The View at the Palms is also another attraction where visitors enjoy incomparable views of one of Dubai’s most talked about landmarks at the View at The Palm. Located 240m high, the observation deck presents never seen before 360-degree panoramas of Palm Jumeirah alongside the sparkling waters of the Arabian Gulf and Dubai skyline in the distance. The View at The Palm is located on level 52 of The Palm Tower, which also houses a café, a creative exhibition, interactive aquarium-themed tunnels and a gift shop. For some Nigerians, travelling to Dubai has become a life’s dream.