 The Chairman of telecommunications services provider, Globacom , Dr. Mike Adenuga Jr, has said the company will continue to appreciate its dealers who have worked assiduously to make the network the darling of subscribers across the country. The business mogul spoke at the weekend during the exquisite dealer appreciation gala dinner in Lagos. Adenuga, who was represented by the Retail and Consumer Sales Chief, Mr. Ken Ogujiofor, announced a special incentives package worth over N750m to buoy the company’s distribution channel. He encouraged its partners to work harder to satisfy the business goals of the mobile network operator. While expressing appreciation to the dealers for their past collaborations, the chairman disclosed that the event is in continuation of Glo’s tradition of rewarding and upholding excellence among its treasured partners. According to him: “We are delighted to note that the reward programme was a huge success, with many of our partners achieving and surpassing the target bands set for the two categories; volume push and activations.” The dealers were excited at the mouth-watering prizes which came in different categories ranging from cash prizes in form of credit notes running into millions of naira, to other expensive incentives. The evening was not just about business as it featured musical entertainment by top musicians and comedians including juju maestro, King Sunny Ade (KSA) and his African beats, the Groove Band and the duo of Godwin Komone aka Gordons and MC Forever who serenaded guests with great music, comedy and wise cracks. Mr. Viju Unnithan of Marketing Department, Globacom emphasised the company’s commitment to enhancing customer satisfaction adding that the company’s products and services were designed to add value to Glo subscribers. Mr. Remi Makinde of Globacom’s Network Implementation Group, reiterated the company’s Network Quality Enhancement plan and how it has boosted the network significantly. The lucky business associates who were delighted at the good gesture showered encomiums on Globacom’s Board, management and staff. Managing Director of Zeph Associates, Mr. Tochukwu Nwosu whose company won three top prizes among the category one dealers said: “Globacom has delighted its trade partners tonight and on behalf of my fellow dealers, we say thank you to Globacom”. Managing Director of Yarab Integrated Limited, Alhaji Mobolaji Abdulrasaq said: “We will continue to work towards the progress of the company. Kudos to Glo.” The CEO of Alenssar Infinity Communication Chief Edward Emeano, was also not left out as he expressed satisfaction with Globacom’s style of appreciating its business partners. Said he, “Globacom has shown its true appreciation of our efforts in marketing the company’s products and services and we are truly grateful.”