 *insists blackmail won’t discourage CBN Gov’s well-wishers Sunday Aborisade, AbujaThe Emefiele Support Group (ESG) has raised the alarm over an alleged media plot to smear Mr. Godwin Emefiele and his office as the Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria. The ESG said at a news conference in Abuja on Sunday that there were plans to blackmail Emefiele based on the independent activities of support groups which are calling on him to join the race for the 2023 Presidential election.The group’s Director of Communications, Ms. Benigna Ejimba, clarified that all Emefiele’s support groups were running on voluntary donations and self-raised funds to promote the call for the CBN boss to run for the highest position in the country. Ejimba, however declared that “the smear campaigns were futile attempts from panicky politician’s to scare Emefiele from considering a Presidential bid.”  She said, “Let it be known to these greedy politicians and their allies that no single kobo from Dr. Emefiele or the CBN is part of the funds so far spent on those branded campaign materials that have started giving them sleepless nights. “It is ordinary citizens like us that are contributing these funds in form of our widows might to ensure yet again that Nigeria gets it right and keeps away politicians whose only interest is the treasury of the country. “For clarification, we are proud and bold to say that all Emefiele support groups run on voluntary contributions from eminent members of the various support groups who are desirous of a better nation for us all. “Please note that these young and determined Nigerians cannot and will not be blackmailed into abandoning our commitment to a people’s agenda to convince Dr. Emefiele to step out to continue to consolidate and expand President Muhammadu Buhari’s legacies.“This is a task we are committed to and have resolved to give up all, including our financial resources, to ensure that this is done.” She also expressed confidence that once Dr. Emefiele answered their call and join the presidential race, he would be the candidate to beat and claimed that these attacks are childish attacks that cannot stop the voluntary activities of advocates in calling on Dr. Emefiele to contest. She said, “We owe no one any apology for our conviction and at the end of the day, Nigerians will appreciate us for bearing the torch of this vision when eventually Dr. Godwin Emefiele becomes elected as the President and continues the growth and development of Nigeria.”