 * Say retaining performing legislators will enhance institutional memory Sunday Aborisade in Abuja Some civil society groups (CSOs) in Nigeria have advocated the re-election of 14 out of the 469 serving federal lawmakers, who have distinguished themselves in their legislative activities within the last three years.The group, under the aegis of Coalition of Media and Civil Sociey Organisations in Nigeria, made the call Friday at a press briefing held at the Senate wing of the National Assembly. The National Co-ordinator of the group, Mr Alex Enemanna, said the call was necessitated by the outcome of the report of a research conducted by several CSOs in all the federal constituencies and senatorial districts across the country.He said the report titled: ‘Advocacy for re-election of 14 serving federal lawmakers,’ will be taken to their political parties before the conduct of primary elections slated for next month.He said the political parties would be urged to grant the outstanding lawmakers the right of first refusal as far as party tickets are concerned. The 14 federal lawmakers as announced by the coalition are Senators Ali Ndume (APC Borno South), Orji Uzor Kalu (APC Abia North), Smart Adeyemi (APC Kogi West), James Manager (PDP Delta South), Enyinnaya Abaribe (PDP Abia South), Abiodun Olujimi (PDP Ekiti South), Sani Musa (APC Niger East) and Olamilekan Adeola (APC Lagos West).Others are the Deputy Speaker, Hon. Idris Wase (APC Plateau State), Hon. Ndudi Elumelu (PDP Delta State), Hon. Ado Doguwa (APC Kano State), Hon. Muktar Betara (APC Borno State), Hon. Nkiru Onyejeocha (APC Abia State) and Hon. Sergius Ogun (PDP Edo State).Enemanna explained that the advocacy was being done to avoid loss of institutional memory in the nation’s apex parliament.He said the report showed that the 14 lawmakers performed creditably well as far as legislative activism and development-driven legislations are concerned.He said: “After a careful appraisal of the ninth National Assembly, the coalition and its key partners have come to a conclusion, after careful perusal and fact finding, and in view of sustaining the culture of experience in legislation, that some legislators are deserving of commendation for being on the side of the people in the course of their national assignment both in the quality of motions and bills they have sponsored.“They have also carried out responsible oversight of their committees, as well as initiating projects to make life worth living in their various constituencies. “This is a cardinal decision of the coalition in order to avoid legislative brain drain for the overall benefits of the nation by sustaining experience, quality and capacity in the nation’s National Assembly.“This appraisal cuts across the political divides, ranking and non-ranking members and of course both chambers of the National Assembly.“We shall, after this press conference, write to the leadership of their various political parties at the ward, local government, state and national levels to accord these legislators the right of first refusal in the buildup to the 2023 general election. “This is to ensure that we have our very bests and unbiased minds at our legislative Houses which is pivotal to a thriving democratic norm.” When asked to explain how the 14 lawmakers were adjudged to be the best out of the 469 federal lawmakers, the national coordinator of the group said their findings were based on three months intensive and thorough research carried out across the 109 senatorial districts and 360 federal constituencies.