 As the race to succeed Governor Aminu Tambuwal of  Sokoto State gathers momentum, Onuminya Innocent writes that the cap fits incumbent Deputy Governor, Muhammad Manir Dan’Iya With the 2023 elections gathering momentum, Sokoto, the seat of the Caliphate in particular is becoming agog with activities. The race for the next governor is particularly hot, with incumbent deputy governor and Walin Sokoto, Muhammad Manir Dan’Iya of the PDP leading the pack. Some concerned personalities of Sokoto origin, feel it’s of paramount importance to amplify reasons why the deputy governor is the right candidate for the governorship ticket of the PDP. According to them, the trajectory of Sokoto politics has been characterised by certain beliefs and actions that a sitting deputy governor from the same party has never succeeded his boss. Today, there is a cordial and chummy relationship between Governor Aminu Tambuwal and his deputy. Facts have also shown that between 2019 to date, no governor in the whole of 36 states of the federation has had a good, loyal and cordial relationship with his deputy like that of Tambuwal. This unquestionable loyalty exhibited by the Walin Sokoto to many political watchers is unparalleled in the history of governor/deputy relationship in Nigeria. To justify why the caps fits the Walin  Sokoto more than any of the contestants, those rooting for the deputy governor to succeed Tambuwal have challenged any of the contestants and their supporters to come up with narratives that will equal or surpass the achievements of Walin Sokoto. It’s a globally acceptable norm in every political process that the electorates are enlightened about what individual politician could offer and this is hinged on the politician’s history and stewardship over the years. In seeking the support of the electorate, politicians showcase and market themselves which enable the voters to make wise decisions on why they are better than others and as such should be elected. Looking at the background and experience of the deputy governor, he stands out in many respects. He holds the traditional tittle “Sardaunan Kware” until 29 October 2020 when the revered Sultan of Sokoto, Muhammad Sa’ad Abubakar III, conferred on him the prestigious traditional title of “Walin Sokoto”. This title is a plus for the deputy governor, who many consider as a loyal public servant. The Walin Sokoto started his Qur ‘anic education at the age of four and memorised the Holy Qur’an in the early 80s during his primary school education at Magajin Gari Primary school. He proceeded to Government Science Secondary School Farfaru Sokoto and graduated in 1989. He holds a Bachelor’s Degree in Education/Economics from Usmanu Danfodiyo University Sokoto in 2014. He also has a Higher Diploma in Accounting and Finance, Professional Diploma in Accounting and Auditing and a Certificate in Local Government Administration, these professional certificates were obtained at the then Abdu Gusau Polytechnic and Sokoto State Polytechnic, respectively. He served as a civil servant in various capacities under the Sokoto State Local Government Service Commission. Dan’Iya joined politics in 2003 and was appointed Sole administrator of Kware local government and subsequently elected as Chairman of Kware Local Government Area. In 2011 and 2015 he served as Special Adviser to the then Speaker of the House of Representatives, Aminu Tambuwal. He later came back to Sokoto and was appointed as the Commissioner for Local Governments and Community Development. He became the deputy governor in 2018, a position he holds till date. Another thing going for the deputy governor is that he is a grassroots politician, having interfaced with the people as a public servant in the local government and subsequently, as a caretaker chairman and also as an elected executive of the local government. With his credentials, other contestants are challenged to show their resume in their respective capacities as public servants or engagements with the rural or local dwellers for comparative purposes. Their confidence was borne out of the fact that the deputy governor had passed through the thick and thin of Sokoto politics and they see him as somebody who is more of a grassroots democrat. His experiences cut across both the legislative and executive domain, as a special adviser to the Speaker of the House of Representative, later became a member of the state executive council and now the number two personality in the state. None among the contestants “has attained such a high profile trajectory in politics” posited supporters of Dan Iya. His experiences shows the magnitude of his political structure as the son of the soil who impacted positively on the lives of the people educationally, socially and economically, There are many foundations, as well as other community services and scholarships that are in existence courtesy of Walin Sokoto. “We challenge the other contestants to showcase their resume in terms of how they impacted on the lives of people in the state,” say his supporters. As part of his philanthropy, Dan’Iya has made a duty to give quarterly assistance to less-privileged, low income earners and youths who could not afford marriage including provision of housing accommodation to less-privileged. Many within Sokoto and beyond have given their testimonies to this gesture. Dan’Iya has established a foundation charged with the sole responsibility of providing succour to the less-privileged in the society. Thousands of beneficiaries of this kind gesture are scattered all over the state. Through his Walin Foundation, several mosques and other religious centres were reconstructed and new ones built by him especially the Almajiri school converted to accommodate modern and Islamic knowledge in Kware LG. The Walin Foundation also gives a monthly token to Ulamas and religious preachers who run some selected Almajiri schools, this is meant to assist them in cushioning the effect of their efforts in teaching at the selected learning centres. The foundation also in many instances offset medical bills of less-privileged at occasions when the need arises. Through human milk of kindness thousands have benefitted and are still benefitting from such gestures. The deputy governor is also involved in educational interventions in form of cash to deserving youth who aspire to continue their education. For example, in the universities, polytechnics and colleges of education, records have it that no political office holder has personally contributed to the development of education like the Walin Sokoto. Several beneficiaries have graduated under his scholarships and many in their hundreds are still enjoying the gesture. In his quest to contribute to the development of female and girl-child education, he has sponsored hundreds of female students to pursue various health-related courses in the state health institutions. To this end, a financial token was also given to support them. The scholarship support also includes post-graduate studies for Sokoto indigenes, which hundreds of Masters and PhD students studying in various tertiary institutions in Nigeria; all benefiting from  the Dan Iya post graduate financial support initiative. In the area of small scale business development, the Walin Sokoto youth development initiative has so far empowered youths in Kware and Sokoto towns with capital and other resources to build and sustain their businesses. It is in record that apart from the government, no private or public servant within the state have contributed in the development of youths like the Walin Sokoto. The deputy governor has continued to receive awards and commendations from various youth organisations within and outside the state. The Walin Sokoto foundation for orphanage development and vulnerable children has had the highest impact on child development apart from the state, and his foundation has catered, educated and transformed many vulnerable and orphaned children into responsible and better citizens. In terms of social interventions to vulnerable communities, the Walin foundation has constructed boreholes in hundreds to the various settlements within and outside the state, this especially in those areas lacking water supply. Political pundits believe that one good turn deserves another. Governor Tambuwal will not have problem making decision on who succeeds him as his deputy has shown capacity to lead Sokoto State.