 According to the late American business magnate, Steve Job,  “Innovation distinguishes between a leader and a follower.” Undoubtedly, the Director-General National Council for Arts and Culture (NCAC), Otunba Segun Runsewe has proven beyond any reasonable doubt that he is indeed a leader with great ideas and innovations. His bundle of ideas and ingenuity has made him shine brilliantly everywhere he goes while the agency he manages is one of the most admired and popular in the Ministry of Culture. In a bid to strengthen the cultural and bilateral relationship between Nigeria and the Republic of Gambia, the highly intelligent DG has declared his intention to launch the Nigeria/Gambia friendship club. He made this known in his office when he played host to a delegation from the Gambian Radio and Television Services, who were in his office as part of their working visit to Nigeria. Runsewe, who expressed delight over their visit to the council, said he had tremendous respect for the people of Gambia for their unwavering efforts in sustaining their good cultural heritage. According to Runsewe, the good relationship between Nigeria and Gambia was visible when both countries collaborated effectively during their participation in some international tourism events when he headed the Nigerian Tourism Development Corporation (NTDC), adding that the Gambian Embassy was the first to pay him a courtesy visit when he assumed duty as the Director-General of NCAC.  “The best way to promote any nation is through its brand identity. If the Gambia develops a strong brand identity, it will be easy to market the brand”, Runsewe maintained. Earlier in his address, the Director-General, Gambian Radio and Television Services and the Head of the delegation, Mr. Malik Gyang, said they were on a working visit to the Nigerian Television Authority (NTA) to explore areas of mutual partnership, experience sharing and networking. He noted that given the good track record of Runsewe who has positively projected the image of Nigeria, home and abroad, within the Culture and Tourism space, the delegation was moved to visit the NCAC and seek possible areas of collaboration to move the arts and tourism sectors forward. The Head of the delegation opined that both countries needed to work assiduously in transforming their rich and diverse cultural heritage into a viable economy to complement the gains from oil as both countries share similarities in many ways. He said the Republic of Gambia would be delighted to receive the Nigerian cultural icon in their country to share his wealth of experience in the areas of culture and tourism with them.