 Adedayo Akinwale in Abuja In spite of the delay in rolling out a timetable and schedule of activities for the 2023 general election, the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has said that there was no cause for alarm because everything was under control.The party, however, explained that while it would not give a specific timeline when the schedule of activities would be released, it would be released soon. Recall that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) last week issued a fresh warning to political parties against undermining its guidelines on the 2023 elections. It lamented that since it announced the changes in the dates for the country’s general election in February and rolled out its schedule of activities, only two out of the 14 activities in its timetable have so far been executed.“Where a political party fails to comply with the provisions of the Act in the conduct of its primaries, its candidate shall not be included in the election for the particular position in issue. “As required by law, the commission shall monitor the primaries of each political party that provides the required legal notice in line with Sections 82 (1) and (5) of the Electoral Act. Failure of a political party to notify the Commission of any convention or congress convened for the purpose of nominating candidates for any of the elective offices specified in the Act shall render the convention or congress invalid,” INEC had said. However, in line with the INEC’s directive, the main opposition party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) commenced the sales of Nomination and Expression of Interest forms on March 17 and would end on April 17, 2022. But, speaking to THISDAY in a telephone interview yesterday, the National Publicity Secretary of APC, Mr. Felix Morka, said while the party might not have a lot of time, it has everything under control. He stated: “There is nothing delaying the party – nothing at all. After the last National Working Committee (NEC) meeting, I did make some comments to say that the matter was still under discussion; we have our procedures, we are not done; we will be done soon and as soon as we are done, that information will be released to the media. That is still the position.” Asked if the party was not running against time considering INEC timetable, Morka explained that while he cannot give a specific timeline when the schedule of activities would be released, he said it would be released soon.He added: “We have it under control. Yes, not a whole lot of time, but we have it under control. But in a very short while you will get the information that you seek “I can’t say, I can’t give a timeline, it is not entirely up to me. As you remarked, you just mentioned that the schedule we have doesn’t give us a whole lot of time.” However, a proposed schedule of activities that was trending on social media last week which the party refuted, showed that the ruling party would commence the sale of forms for the various election positions on April 22 and end on May 7. The proposed timetable also indicated that submission of completed forms for various positions will take place between May 9 and 18, while the screening of aspirants is scheduled to hold between May 22 and May 29.It also revealed that the screening appeals will hold between May 23; while the primary election will take place between May 17 and 30 May, 2022.