 Ferdinand Ekechukwu As the executive producer, creative producer, and producer, respectively of the Netflix’s first Nigerian original series, ‘Blood Sisters’, EbonyLife Studio’s team of Mo Abudu, Heidi Uys, and Temidayo Makanjuola talk about casting choices, characterization focus, and the thematic concerns of the four part series action thriller which premieres on May 5. On the casting process for this limited series, Temidayo revealed that the team worked together on a long list of talent, who were asked to partake in virtual readings. According to her, “We were still in a pandemic and had to limit the number of people we saw physically. A number of the producers and directors noted their favourites. They were then invited to a closed physical reading. We matched up different actors with each other to get a feel of their dynamics and chemistry. We even gave some actors new roles to read. “At the end of the process, Timeyin (Genoveva Umeh) was the only character we hadn’t found. Genoveva was recommended by a director and she read alongside a few others, but after her performance, we all knew she was the right choice.” A product of  EbonyLife Creative Academy, the breakout star, Genoveva, the producers noted, was fearless in becoming the role of a young rich girl in serious dire straits. Temidayo also cited instances on Ini Dima-Okojie and Nancy Isime (Sarah and Kemi) who appear to have connected greatly on screen. “In the casting is was clear as day that both Ini Dima-Okojie and Nancy Isime have this special bond of ‘sisters forever’ on and off the screen. The choice was clear and we were riveted from the very first read.” Heidi, speaking on the character choice of Ini and Nancy, said both Nancy and Ini swapped and swapped again, and Ini’s emotional vulnerability as against Nancy’s ‘defender’ spirit was just the perfect combination: “Both had to bring an immense physicality to their roles and it was incredibly taxing for the girls being challenged mentally, spiritually and physically on set.” Another character whose role was worth mentioning is Kate Henshaw who plays a much older woman in the ‘Blood Sisters’. Heidi stated: “There simply was only one person who could bring the family matriarch Uduak to life and that is the epic Kate Henshaw. She’s strong and has tremendous emotional range to have brought in instant tears of sorrow and the cruelty of a woman who must rule, to screen. She also had to endure some SFX make-up on set to age her but as for the performance, she did it all from ageing her voice to how she carried herself as an older woman.” On the thematic concerns which dealt with a number of societal issues, the casting decisions and the plot, Abudu said the rich versus poor in the Nigerian context had always been a core theme of the story. Abudu explains further: “But, what really influenced the plot is the question – what’s the worst thing that could ever happen on your wedding day? The story centres around two best friends, who accidentally kill the groom on the day of his wedding engagement and their attempts to cover it up. “What a brilliant inciting incident to a ‘girls on the run’ plot line. A Nigerian ‘Thelma and Louise’, but so totally authentic to Nigeria and what it means to be two sisters bound in blood. Also very relevant, was the global narrative that puts the spotlight on gender equality, and freedom from patriarchy and its systemic abuses.  This series also sheds light on the fact that, women are also abusive to each other. Our young ladies on the run have incredible odds stacked against them. Is this sisterhood strong enough to survive? We’ll wait and see. ‘Blood Sister’s is an action thriller, with heart and grit, like you’ve never seen before. “We were aware of the immense complexities that the abusive themes of the series would bring to characters, as well as the challenges the actors would face in bringing the characters to life.  We were thorough in selecting actors with heart and grit, who could reach into their souls, to bring these notes to the screen. Our cast did precisely that – they brought truth and believability to their roles.  The vibe between the ensemble mattered hugely and they really bonded. The intensity of their performance will rip at the hearts of our viewers and keep them on the edges of their seats.”