Fesogbade Adegoroye Oyebade, artistically known as Feso Oyebade is a former university lecturer, inspirational humourist and a highly talented and skillful master of ceremonies. Oyebade has successfully anchored more than 100 events at home and abroad. He has featured as a standup comedian in some of the biggest shows across the globe which include: Lagos Laughs, Spirit of Saco in Lagos, Crack Ya Ribs in London and Manchester, Just Joking in London and Just Laughing in Colchester, to mention a few. In this interview, the Ekiti State-born multi-faceted performing artiste tells Funke Olaode why he dumped classroom to ply his trade on the stage. His is a self-discovery. His creativity, artistry and ingenuity to toe his path in the world of arts found him early.  His acting skills were first discovered early in the nursery school he attended by Rev. Oladele, the proprietor of the school. Then, he would be assigned some poems to memorize and read at the Assembly to other pupils. “I played key roles in all dramatic activities in primary school from the first year to the last year,’’ he recounted. “Also, in secondary school, I was a member of the dramatic society and won an award in my last year in school for my brilliant performance on stage. The award which was Christ School Merit Awardee (CSMA) was only given to distinguished alumni. I presume I was the first student to be so honoured with the award.” As Oyebade grew older, his little mind began to tilt towards studying law which his parents considered to be more befitting than theatre arts. “While filling my JAMB form, I picked Law as my first choice and Theatre Arts second. The Professor who processed my admission in Lagos State University (LASU) told the admission officer that his candidate wanted Theatre Arts. It was when I went to thank him for his help that he asked me if I could really dance because of my interest in Theatre. I then told him it was law I wanted to study, he looked at my file on his table and said ‘I didn’t know Law was your first choice, you would have made law with your score’. He then encouraged me to go and do Theatre Arts.’ But were his parents disappointed because of his choice? “Not really. My parents were very supportive during my undergraduate, they even came to LASU to witness a play I produced in my final year.” Oyebade, a Prince from Ogotun-Ekiti in Ekiti State was born on June 10, 1986 to the current traditional ruler Ologotun of Ogotun- Ekiti, Oba Oyebade.  After his early years at Dele Foundation Nursery School, Ita-Ogbolu, Ondo State and Christ’s School, Ado-Ekiti, he proceeded to Lagos State University, Ojo, where he bagged a Bachelor of Arts degree in Theatre Arts with a 2nd Class Upper Division, graduating in 2009. In his quest for knowledge, in 2013, he headed to the prestigious University of Essex, Colchester, United Kingdom for Master of Arts degree in Film Studies. He possesses a certificate in comedy writing and performance from Wivenhoe Funny Farm, Wivenhoe, United Kingdom and a certificate in basic presentation from The Federal Radio Corporation of Nigeria Training School, Ikeja. He is also an alumnus of the premier Christian Drama Institute in Nigeria: the Mount Zion Institute of Christian Drama, Ile-Ife Nigeria where he bagged an advance certificate in Christian Drama Arts. He is currently pursuing a doctorate degree in Media Arts in Federal University of Oye, Ekiti State. Oyebade has over nine years of professional events MC Experience, over twenty-five stage and screen credits as actor, producer and director.  He lectured for five years in a University in Ekiti State before he resigned to pursue a full-time career in the comedy scene. With mentors such as Dr. Sogo, SACO, Richmond Osuji and Joyce Daniels who influenced him greatly, he also draws lots of inspiration from the forerunners of stand-up comedy such as Alibaba, Teju Babyface Oyelakin and Gbenga Adeyinka whom he sees as role models. Oyebade didn’t embrace stan-up comedy immediately as he went into lecturing. But after three years in the classroom, he bid the university goodbye.  “I was doing well as a lecturer but the condition of service was becoming unbearable. At a time, we were owed several months of salaries which made feeding challenging and there were no events in Ekiti. I had to move to Lagos. My dad had his strong reservations but my mum believed there was no point working and not getting paid. “There was this heavy burden in me that I had to leave, it took me more than a year after discussing with my Head of Department before I actually resigned. Hunger was not only the motivation for quitting academics. I had to leave because of my family as well. My wife and daughter live in Lagos and the shuttling between Ekiti and Lagos was becoming unbearable for me. Today, my wife is thankful that at least I am traveling from Lagos and my trip do not last more than three days unlike when I was a University lecturer outside Lagos that I could be gone for three weeks at a stretch.” With a bleak future staring in his face and the world of uncertainty that comedy presents, Oyebade believes in himself and ability that he would succeed.  “There is this innate conviction that I will definitely succeed in the world of ‘emceeing’ and comedy. Counsel from my mentors also gave me the conviction that with hard work and perseverance I can excel in this new career path,’’ he said. As he moves up the ladder as a stand-up comedian and MC, Oyebade still faces a lot of challenges or frustrations and but he has never given up on himself. “Giving up is like giving up on God who gave me the talent. Everything great takes time to grow. I know my roots have to go deep to support the size of the fruit that God wants to grow in my life. I understand that the deeper the root, the wider the shoot. “ Nevertheless, Oyebade admits he has also had his ups and downs. “The challenges in this profession are enormous. Contract is a primary challenge. Some clients would not just want to honour contract. A job has been contracted to an MC and deposit has been made to confirm booking. Out of the blue, few days to the event, MC gets a call for refund because another MC has been gotten for the event. The MC may not work on that date because other clients interested in the date have been told that the date is not available.” Oyebade has been plying his trade on stage over the last nine years, he wouldn’t say he has found his breakthrough yet.  “Breakthrough?  I am still Trusting God for breakthrough, I can only say I’m beginning to break forth, the brand is getting visibility and I appreciate all past and present clients for trusting me with their events.  If the General Overseer of RCCG Daddy Adeboye says he has not started with all the achievements, then I’m just at the level of ‘bre’ no ‘kin’ yet not to talk of breakthrough.” And his staying power? “My staying power has been God and the tremendous support I enjoy from the home front. My wife and mum believe so much in me. My mum would always call to pray for me and encourage me. She tells me all the time not to be too impatient and should look on to God alone in my pursuit of success.” An avid reader, Oyebade who relaxes by reading and watching comic video films has a few tips for upcoming ones like him. According to him, humility is key. “Budding MCs should not think they have arrived because of their bank account and popularity.  Budding MCs must cultivate the habit of reading, I have six books in my library on the subject of ‘emceeing’ and four others on jokes. To also stay on top, we must give back to the society and help as many people to climb the ladder of success.” As an MC, I have learnt that every call is a high calling when it is highly pursued and to hide my hunger when negotiating with clients.”