 Kemi Olaitan in Ibadan Oyo State Governor, Mr. Seyi Makinde yesterday asked state and federal lawmakers to embrace the quest of some states for resource control and state police, saying the debate had become imperative irrespective of their political affiliations. He argued that EndSARS protests, rise of terrorism and various agitations that rocked the federation “are all reasons for the legislature to embrace some neglected conversations around constitutional amendments.” He made this remark yesterday at the Conference of Presiding Officers of Nigeria Legislature held at the International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA), Ibadan, the Oyo State capital. Speaking on resource control, Makinde said there “is an ongoing national conversation about equity and fairness. We have seen the press release figures that show that it is just a few states that are contributing to the Value Added Tax, which everyone is sharing. “We have long talked about the states that are producing the oil that we all are sharing proceeds from. Everyone has seen how some states do not even make an effort to raise their IGR because they are comfortable with receiving federal allocations from work done by others. “But now that the receipts are dwindling, even those states are waking up to the conversation and asking if they can keep what they make. Can there be a better time to discuss resource control? Constitutional amendments are a must. They are a big reason we have the legislative arm of government. As time passes, new generations are born, and new conversations emerge. We must, as a people, be ready to move with the times. This is the only way to move forward. “I hope you can raise these thorny issues that have eluded those who came before you. You may not be able to resolve them, but you would at least acknowledge that there is an elephant in the room. This is an important first step.” While maintaining that democratic governance must ensure equitable service delivery, Makinde said: “It is high time the legislatures in the country engaged in a robust debate on the twin issues of resource control and state police. “If the lawmakers rigorously debate and come up with answers on these two issues, which are capable of giving Nigerians a fair deal on all counts, they will go into the annals of history as the best Assembly Session ever. “Nigerians are demanding that their governors play the role of Chief Security Officers of their states. The introduction of state police would help in routing insecurity across the federation,” the governor pointed out at the conference. Makinde, however, commended members of the National Assembly and the State Houses of Assembly for ensuring true democracy in Nigeria by delivering the Electoral Act 2022 to Nigeria. He observed that each new assembly undertook constitutional amendments, but the major reforms that would finally address many of the concerns affecting Nigerians “are often ignored. “These conversations have become like the elephant in the room. Everyone knows it is there. But no one wants to acknowledge it. But the thing about elephants is that they can’t be ignored for too long. They will move. When they move, we will be forced to confront them. “We do not have to wait to be forced to take action. Actions that are taken under pressure and without due consultation often fail to accomplish desired objectives. It is high time the twin issues of resource control and state police are subjected to robust debate at the legislature. “I believe any assembly that puts those two issues up for rigorous debate and gives Nigerians a fair deal on all counts will go down in history as the best assembly ever. If you read the pulse of the nation, you will see that everyone is tired of the status quo, and they are ready for new vistas.” The governor explained how the decision of the South-west governors “to heed the people’s call resulted in the creation of the Western Nigeria Security Network codenamed Amotekun Corps, saying the initiative has brought relief to the people.” In the South-west, Makinde explained that the governors came together “to create an alternative security network that would support the efforts of the federal security agencies through the Western Nigeria Security Network. The people can see for themselves how things are working out. The Amotekun Corps has brought relief to them.” Also at the conference, the Speaker of the Oyo State House of Assembly, Hon. Adebo Ogundoyin thanked the participants in the first edition of the quarterly general meeting of Speakers of State Legislatures in Nigeria. He explained that the Nigerian Legislature “is poised to play its part in bringing fruition to the agitations of millions of Nigerians on the need for alterations to the 1999 Constitution Of The Federal Republic Of Nigeria.” Also in his goodwill message, the Chairman of the Conference of Speakers of State Legislatures of Nigeria, Hon. Abubakar Suleiman, appreciated Makinde for hosting the First Quarter (2022) General Meeting of the Conference of Speakers of State Legislatures of Nigeria.