 Fidelis David in Akure The Ondo State Government yesterday clarified that the State Governor, Mr. Oluwarotimi Akeredolu (SAN), was not hospitalised in Germany or anywhere, and described such rumors as the wishes of failed politicians who now carry the burden of uncanny distrust and embedded treachery. This comes after a report was published by an online medium that  Akeredolu is hospitalised in Germany. According to a statement issued by the Chief Press Secretary to the State Governor, Mr. Richard Olabode, the story was fabricated, wicked and misleading. The statement reads: “The news item published on an online medium which alleged that the Ondo State Governor, Mr. Arakunrin Oluwarotimi Akeredolu (SAN), is being hospitalised in Germany is wicked and misleading. “We are not amazed at this fabricated and outright falsehood which is being spread by cronies of some disgruntled politicians in their renewed efforts at plastering battered political misadventures. “For the records, Governor Akeredolu, alongside other colleagues, left Nigeria for Dubai to attend the largest Annual Investment Meeting in the United Emirates between March 28 and March 31, 2022. The statement noted that Akeredolu had on April 3, 2022, sent a letter to the State House of Assembly, informing the legislative arm that he would be away for 14 working days as the first part of his 2022 annual leave. It stressed that the governor also transferred power to the Ondo State Deputy Governor, Hon. Lucky Aiyedatiwa, to perform the functions of his office while he is away. “It is glaringly insidious for anyone to claim that a man who was with his brother governors in Dubai till March 31st, which is exactly one week today, is being hospitalised in Germany. What exposes this shameful falsehood is the fact that the report claimed the governor was flown out of the country to Germany when in fact, he left for Dubai. Ordinarily, we would not have responded to this blatant lies, but for the unsuspecting members of the public who might be hoodwinked by these lies. “In clear terms, Governor Akeredolu is not hospitalised anywhere. These are mere wishes of failed politicians who now carry the burden of uncanny distrust and embedded treachery. “We won’t even wish them their evil imaginations. Once, they have tried; and they failed woefully. No amount of borrowed falsehood to cover up their moral deficiencies will bring back their lost political glory,” the statement added.