 Pepsi will refresh the second edition of the DStv Premium Golf Day with top-tier music ensemble, Storm Band, and crack disc jockey, DJ Xclusive.  The DStv Premium Golf Day will be held at the Ikeja Golf Club, Lagos, today . The decision of the leading soft drink bottlers was announced in a statement released on Wednesday by Flykite Productions, organisers of the event. Storm Band, according to the statement, is Nigeria’s finest and fastest-growing band, providing the best of live music across a vast array of genres that include Naija hip-hop, juju, highlife, fuji, old school jams as well as rhythm and blues. DJ Xclusive (real name Rotimi Alakija), one of the biggest names on the music and jockeying circuit. He has performed with top acts like Ne-Yo, Rihanna, Mario Winans, Brick and Lace, Nas and Fat Joe. He won the World’s Best DJ Award at the 2010 Nigeria Entertainment Awards held in the United States and was nominated for Best DJ at the 2011 edition of the BEFFTA Awards. He was also featured at the 2013 Big Brother House Party. The musical support offered by Pepsi, said Flykite Productions, according to the organisers, promises to add a generous splash of colour to the event by providing a confluence between music and golf and reflects the soft drinks company’s commitment to the promotion of Nigerian music and sports. Segun Ogunleye, General Manager, Marketing (Beverages), Seven-Up Bottling Company, Pepsi’s parent company, described Pepsi’s support for the DStv Premium Golf Day as an extension of its contribution to sports and entertainment in Nigeria. “Pepsi is proud to partner with DStv on the DStv Premium Golf Day and happy to refresh the many golfers participating in the competition,” Ogunleye said. Over 100 golfers from clubs across the country, to be chosen from about 600 registrants, feature at the event where they will play with only four clubs and a putter.  Winners will emerge via a stroke play format. As previously announced, exciting prizes will be awarded to the best three golfers at the event, with the star prize being a business class flight ticket to Dubai for a weekend stay at a five-star hotel. The second prize is a business class ticket to Kigali, Rwanda, for a weekend stay at a five-star hotel, while the third prize is a weekend stay at a five-star hotel in Lagos. At the maiden edition in 2020, Dr. Ogunbiyi Ogunbanjo of Ikeja Golf Club, Messrs. Remi Olukoya and Rasheed Adebisi won the first, second and third prizes respectively.