Emmanuel Addeh The Minister of Power, Mr. Abubakar Aliyu, yesterday said that the priority of the current administration is to complete all ongoing projects across the country. Aliyu noted that the federal government’s investment in the country’s power sector was yielding results with improvement in grid stability, significantly reducing the frequency of power systems collapse. Speaking in Markudi, Benue state, when he paid a visit to Governor Samuel Ortom, as part of his working visit to inspect ongoing power projects in the state, Aliyu noted that the federal government was already constructing a 40-megawatt (MW) electricity plant from Kashimbila, Taraba to Yandev in Benue. “The project is in two phases; phase one is from Kashimbila to Yandev, and phase two is from Yandev to Makurdi,” a statement from the minister’s office quoted his to have said. Aliyu listed part of phase two of the project to include the construction of a 2 by 60 MVA, 132/33KV substation at Ugba and the construction of a 2 by 7.5MVA, 33/11KV substation (switching station) at Zaki Biam. He stated that other ongoing projects are the two by 7.5MVA, 33/11KV substation (switching station) at Buruku, construction of 2 by7.5MVA, 33/11KV sub-station at Anyii and a 22.5km 33kV DC line from Ugba to Zaki Biam. According to him, there’s also an ongoing construction of a 19.1km 33kV DC line from Ugba to Buruku as well as the 36.5km/33kV DC line from Ugba to Anyii. Aliyu said phase one of the project had been completed while phase two would be completed within six months, adding that his visit to Benue state was part of efforts to ensure timely completion of the remaining part of the projects. “Power is one of the areas that the federal government is giving much attention to. President Muhammdu Buhari’s emphasis on infrastructure include the power component that will bring stability of electricity in Nigeria,” the minister added. Responding, Ortom stated that the visit afforded him a better opportunity to know what is going on in the power sector. “I am delighted by what the federal ministry of power is doing in Benue state and the visit of the minister and his team shows rare commitment to Benue state. I am now more educated about what the federal government is doing to improve electricity,” Ortom said. The governor also said his government was ready to support the federal government’s investment in electricity in the state and called for more cooperation between all tiers of government for the development of the power sector. The minister and his team later visited the power station at Yandev and were conducted round the facility by officials handling the project.