Hammed Shittu The National Missioner, Daar- ur Rahmat (DARMAT) Islamic Society, Ustaz Misbahudeen Olawale, has appealed to the federal government to rescind its decision over the plan to increase the prices of pump prices of fuel products in the country. Speaking with journalists in Ilorin, Kwara State capital yesterday, on the state of the nation and distribution of empowerment to the 20 widows of the society, Olawale said that the appeal became imperative in view of the present economic hardship facing the people or the country. He said that “increase of pump price of petrol and other fuel products by the federal government would not help the masses of the country but will add more hardship to them. “Even, the present fuel price being paid at the filling stations in the country today is not easy to go by and any plan to add to the price of petrol would bring serious effects on the masses.” Olawale added that “I am using this New Year celebration to appeal to the federal government to have a change of mind on the plan to increase the fuel prices. “The essence of democracy is to better the lots of the people and not to compound their problems and the government should look into this appeal.” The cleric said that the Islamic society decided to give support to the widows so as to alleviate their suffering. “It is worrisome now in Nigeria that meeting ends meet is a serious problem among the people due to poor economic policies on the part of those leading us. “This situation is getting worse that people have been resulting to begging before they can eat and this is uncalled for and not good for the nation that is taking democracy as its system of government. “We elected people to give us good leadership that will transform our lives but alas it is opposite and this has continued to have serious toll on socio wellbeing of the society. “Poverty has taken over land and people could not get work to do in view of the bad policies imposed on us and this has to change so as to bring new lease of life to Nigerians,” he noted. The cleric pointed out further that the provision of succour to the widows is to show them the sense of belonging and improve their socio wellbeing. He, howeve,r advised Muslims across the nation to continue to imbibe the teachings of Prophet Muhammad so as to bring new lease of life to the doorsteps of the society.