As the world embraces digital technology, its arms are also opening to accepting the global evolution currently taking place in the financial space with the advent of digital currencies either owned by governments or controlled by algorithms and technologies. As digital awareness increases, more people are welcoming of the new digital financial trends and are willing to participate in the markets and gain knowledge to propel financial independence. With this, there is a need for digital financial communities to spring up. The benefits of digital financial communities where players and new entrants into the financial space converge to leverage on experiences and expertise have a direct impact on the market ecosystem. The communities are beneficial for the literacy and growth of players in the digital financial space which supports the growth of the markets. The birth of digital financial communities provides for lifelong friendships and bonds with people who share similar interests. These friendships last over time as they learn, dream, discover new opportunities and expand knowledge together. Communities can offer peer to peer mentorships and provide shared resources which allow members to stay on top of new and emerging technology tools. The communities can also provide for teaching and learning experiences that add value and purpose through the converging of minds from different backgrounds to exchange knowledge. As the world becomes a more global village, as digital financial opportunities make the village even smaller and as markets become easily assessed either by the tap of a button on a mobile device or a click of a keypad on the laptop from any location across the world, digital financial communities make it even easier to partake in the global financial markets, giving a sense of togetherness, encouraging diversity through shared knowledge, improve continuous learning and development and above all, enhancing financial literacy globally. The enormous benefits of digital financial communities can not be overemphasized as it supports the longevity and acceptability of new financial markets and currencies despite whether it is being backed by governments, algorithms or technologies.