Hammed Shittu in Ilorin The National Coordinator, New Nigeria Movement (NNM), championing the generational shift come 2023, Alhaji Mohammed Ibrahim Ajia, has linked the nation’s woes to the failure of the youth to act with the commitment and courage when the need arises. He insisted that the failure of the youths to get involved and take charge in the management of the affairs of the country has led to the resurgence of insecurity, kidnapping, banditry, terrorism, secessionist agitations, ritual killings, cyber crimes and among others. Ajia, a security expert and 2019 gubernatorial aspirant in Kwara State, spoke with journalists in Ilorin yesterday on the state of the nation and the New Year message to the people of the country. He noted that though there was no excuse for the Nigeria to perform so abysmally, the young people must admit their culpability in the challenges that are currently threatening the fabric of the nation. Ajia, who added that the collective nonchalance of the young people over the years would make it herculean for that most critical segment of the population to produce the nation’s next President in about 13 months from now. The former governorship aspirant challenged the youths to wake up and realize that they have all it requires to end the devilish acts stagnating the progress of the country. He opined further: “Let us reflect on the event and activities of the 2021 and work out a way forward for the betterment of the country. We need to revisit the issues that led us to where we are today. “I urge the young people to begin to act more responsibly from now. We should all realize that it is our collective failure that has brought us to the situation we found ourselves today. “Our complacency has led to our failure and the gap in leadership. Our lack of commitment to Nation building has brought about economic depression. Our failure to do the needful has led to insecurity, kidnapping, banditry, terrorism, secession, ritual killings, cyber crimes and so on”. He pointed out that, “We should wake up and realize that we have all it takes to end all sort of devilish acts stagnating the progress of our dear country. We should all admit that we the young people are the major cause of the woes of this country, and there is no excuse for us to fail this nation. “We should know of the existence of local and international conspiracies against our country even before independence. “As it stands today, we must come together to determine the political direction of Nigeria come 2023. Having reviewed the political situation and the current structure with emphasis on the delay in the assent to the 2021 Electoral Act (Amendment) and as watch the drama unfold, it is obvious that producing a President from among us the young people would be an unachievable task in 2023. “We must therefore identify and support the emergence of a President that will reflect holistic and peaceful coexistence of One Nigeria. A man with proven records of purposeful leadership, patriotic and progressive credentials in the executive, legislative and judicial arms of government. “And on the other hand, we must encourage and support those among us with political ambitions irrespective of their political parties, so they can succeed.The problems with us is solvable if we are determined to find the solution. “I wish to specially urge us all the young Nigerians to be resolute and focused to ensure a peaceful progressive one Nigeria for all where peace and justice reign. Happy New Year 2022, Nigerians.”