Sunday Ehigiator World largest free cleft care charity organisation, Smile Train, in partnership with Kids Operating Room (KidsOR) have refurbished the children operating room of the National Orthopaedic Hospital in Enugu (NOHE), Nigeria, with an aim of bringing safer, more timely paediatric surgery closer to the community. This was revealed through a jointly signed statement made available to THISDAY by the two organisations, after the unveiling of the theatres. In her remarks, Smile Train’s Vice-President and Regional Director for Africa, Mrs Nkeiruka Obi underscored the need to prioritise safer paediatric surgery through the provision of adequate infrastructure and trained personnel. She said there was dire need for surgical and anaesthesia infrastructure as well as providers trained in paediatric care in the country. “Smile Train is committed to working in partnership with local medical professionals to ensure that people impacted by cleft lip and palate have access to world-class treatment in their own communities. “Through Smile Train’s partnership with KidsOR, to renovate these theatres and create dedicated paediatric operating rooms, we’re bringing high-quality, more sustainable surgical care to children in need,” she said. KidsOR Director for Africa, Rosemary Mugwe equally emphasised the importance of having dedicated pediatric rooms. According to her, “in this theatre, we have delivered approximately 3,000 state-of-the-art equipment. Our model is to give the right tool to skilled personnel to enable them to care for the children of Enugu and Nigeria at large.” Further, representing KidsOR at the ceremony, the past President of the West African College of Surgeons (WACS), Professor King David Terna Yawe, celebrated the unveiling of the theatre and the value it will bring both to children and the medical professionals. “Our desire is to narrow the gap among children, in Nigeria, lacking access to safer surgery. As we know, of the about 200 million people in the country, 46 per cent, are under the age of 15. “We are also keen on growing the number of qualified surgeons providing the much-needed skills among the underserved communities.” In his acceptance note, Head of the Plastic Surgery Department at National Orthopaedic Hospital Enugu, Dr. Ifeanyichukwu Onah, hailed the transformation, noting that it has instilled morale among the surgical teams, with children feeling more at ease in their recovery journey. “Working in the upgraded theatre boosts the morale of the surgical team not only aesthetically but also using more child-friendly equipment. This theatre is now the benchmark operating space at the National Orthopaedic Hospital Enugu. “Every surgeon, no matter their specialisation, desires to operate on their paediatric cases in it. Additionally, calming the children before their surgery has become easier.”