Nigerian business magnate, Honourable Chief Mmerigwo Henry Iyke has charged Anambra State Governor-elect, Prof Charles Chukwuma Soludo not to forget his vow to deliver on his electoral promises. He said the incoming governor’s manifesto should not turn out to be a tool to lure the people into voting him into power, but a social contract he signed with the people of the state. The Anambra-born businessman said it was disheartening that after many emerge and get into power, they forgot the people who gave them the mandate at first. Henry Iyke while congratulating Soludo reminded him that the work at hand is huge and make his vision for a better, newer, liveable and industrialised Anambra as achievable and efforts must be put in place to bring it to reality. “I must commend your tenacity for vying a third time for office after losing two times and making it. Your campaign promises seemingly suggested that you have the solutions to the problems of Anambra State. “Your manifesto should not just be for the campaign, but see it contract you have signed with Ndi Anambra. Now walk the talk. “you must be committed to undertake the transformation of Anambra and ensure impactful leadership because you were chosen among many qualified candidates. “Nothing should discourage or stop your work plan for a better Anambra. We are counting on you because we believe in you. “Anambra must be transformed to that mega industrialised economy. Our roads both in the rural areas and cities, markets, environment challenges must be addressed,” he said. Honourable Chief Mmerigwo Henry Iyke also referred to as Onwa na ala Uli is a foremost Uli-born business tycoon and renowned philanthropist whoses extraordinary gestures have helped lift many people out of poverty, and he dedicates most of his fortune to helping humanity. Born in Uli, Ihiala Local Government Area, Anambra State, Chief Iyke who is the founder and Chief Executive Officer of Merimerid International Limited is very well known for his philanthropic works through his foundation, Ifenalaife Foundation.