Steve Aya The number of Judges in Lagos State Judiciary have increased to 70, following the addition of 14 new Judges who were, on Friday, sworn-in by Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu. The Judges were sworn in at an elaborate ceremony held at the Banquet Hall, Lagos House, Ikeja. Addressing the new Judges, the Governor reminded them of the enormous power they wield, and advised them to use it with integrity, without fear or favour. He also told them that all eyes will be on them as they discharge their duties, while urging them to speedily carry out all cases. “All eyes will be on you to dispense justice speedily, yet fairly and impartially. You will be expected to live and act above board in all circumstances. “In your hands lies great power: the power to punish wrongdoers and free the innocent, the power to send a strong message to society about the primacy of the rule of law, and to contribute to the growing body of jurisprudence in the country. This power must be wielded with the utmost sense of care, and responsibility. You must not only be efficient and fair, but you must also be seen to be efficient and fair by all”, he admonished. He promised his administration’s continued support to the Judiciary, to be able to ‘fully discharge its constitutional functions and responsibilities’. In his address, the Chief Judge of Lagos State, Hon. Justice Kazeem Alogba urged family members of the new Judges, not to put undue pressure on them. He urged the Judges, not to disappoint the confidence reposed in them. “You have been picked on merit, please do not disappoint us. You have been called to duty where God polices you. Put the fear of God in all you do. Your life has changed henceforth. Don’t forget your homes, a Judge can’t succeed at the Bench, if you don’t have a happy home”, the CJ added. The names of the new Judges are Hon. Justices Olubusola Adeyemi Okunuga, Adenrera Olayinka Adeyemi, Olufolake Olufolasade Oshin, Oluwatoyin Atinuke Odusanya, Olumuyiwa Oluseun Martins, and Ariyike Mutiat Ipaye- Nwachukwu. Others are Hon. Justices Babatunde Oladapo Kalaro, Omolade Jadesola Awope, Akinkunmi Olusegun Idowu, Olalekan Ayodeji Oresanya, Mujibat Iyabode Oshodi, Ismail Olalekan Ijelu, Mosunmola Muyibat Balogun, and Mathias Oluwole Dawodu. The latest appointments increased the number of Judges in the Lagos State Judiciary to 70, out of which 24 were appointed since the beginning of Governor Sanwo-Olu’s administration.