Olusegun Samuel in Yenagoa The Bayelsa State Governor, Senator Douye Diri, has directed his appointees nursing political ambition ahead of the 2023 elections to resign their appointments. Diri explained yesterday during the State Executive Council (SEC) meeting at the Government House, Yenagoa that such ambition was legitimate but should not be at the expense of effective service delivery to the electorates by his administration. A statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the State Governor, Mr. Daniel Alabrah, said that cabinet members eyeing elective offices in February or March next year must not combine politics with governance because the development of the state should supersede politics. Alabrah noted that the administration still had time to deliver on its promises before the next governorship election would be held in the state in the later part of 2023. He, however, commended members of the SEC for their commitment to the service of the state in the past year and expressed confidence that they could do more for the people by working together. The state governor said that there would be periodic evaluation of activities of the various ministries this year to ensure that set targets are being met while urging the cabinet members to redouble their efforts. He said: “I welcome you all to the first executive council meeting in this new year. This year holds so much for us as it precedes an election year. “We have few weeks to be two years in office. So, what is important now is what we have to show to people of the state and to Nigeria in our two years in office and beyond it. What else can we still do as we still have time to still do more? The feedback from the people about our performance so far has been very encouraging. “However, let me warn that any member of the SEC that has one political ambition or the other should resign honourably. Any member of the cabinet that has such ambition should please send his resignation letter to Secretary to the State Government. “It is legitimate for anyone to have ambition but we are one party, we are one government. Let not anyone’s ambition derail our governance and government. Just as we cannot stop anyone from having ambition, let no one stop the government from functioning. “So, you can see where my warning is coming from. It is very difficult for you to combine your job and pursue your ambition (sic). “For me and my deputy, the Constitution made it impossible for us to resign. So we continue in office to pursue our ambition. “I also like to congratulate and appreciate you for the past year. We worked in synergy and as a family. I believe this year will not be different. We will still work together as partners in the development of our state and to give quality service that you and I will be remembered for at God’s own time when we exit our seat.”