David-Chyddy Eleke in Awka The Anambra State government and the leadership of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state, have condoled with the governorship candidate of the PDP in the last governorship election, Mr. Valentine Ozigbo, over the death of his father yesterday. Chief Andrew Ozigbo, 93, died on January 2. Anambra government in a condolence letter signed by the Commissioner for Information and Public Enlightenment, Mr C. Don Adinuba, condoled the Ozigbo family of Amesi in Aguata Local Government Area. Adinuba in his letter said, “Chief Andrew Ozigno is distinguished by high principle and strong commitment to public good. “When the result of the November 6 governorship election came in and it was clear that his son was losing by a wide margin, Chief Ozigbo asked the PDP candidate to accept the outcome of the poll even before the official announcement and congratulate the winner, Professor Chukwuma Soludo, of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA). “Despite his advancement in age, Chief Ozigbo always encouraged his son to play by the rules, eschewing all forms of violence and bitterness and fraud. “He was always conscious of his role and status as a foremost educationist and a devout Christian, who attended the morning mass daily for much of his life. “Chief Ozigbo represented the typical Anambra spirit: a strong determination to excel. He was, for instance, an elementary school headmaster, which was a big position in those days, yet, he was not satisfied with his status in life. “Through determination, further studies and continuous improvement as well as drive, he ended up a secondary school principal. He inculcated strong values in his family of three girls and four boys, including Valentine Ozigbo, his last child.” On his part, the state publicity secretary of PDP, Mr Nnamdi Nwangwu, also condoled with Ozigbo on behalf of the party. The PDP stated: “Every mortal must one day answer the call to the great beyond. We are consoled that Chief Andrew Nwafor Ozigbo, a great leader was a mentor to many successful persons in and outside the state, the journey of life is not about how long but how impactful, the departed hero will live long in the memory of those he positively impacted.” He said the entire members and leadership of PDP in the state sympathised with Ozigbo and his family at their moment of grief.