Blessing Ibunge in Port Harcourt The Ijaw Youths Council (IYC) Worldwide, yesterday, queried the Minister of Transportation, Mr. Chibuike Amaechi’s silence on the agitation of stakeholders for a substantive board of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC). President of IYC, Peter Igbifa, in his new year massage, wondered why Amaechi known for his boldness in speaking out, had remained unusually quiet since the agitations for justice and fairness started in NDDC. “The silence of leaders like the Transport Minister, Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi, on the illegality at the NDDC is no longer golden. Why has Amaechi, who is known for his boldness and for withstanding all opposition to support President Muhammadu Buhari, suddenly lost his voice concerning the NDDC? Amaechi and other leaders must explain to us the reason for their silence,” he said. Igbifa, who reflected on some of the achievements of the council since he took over its leadership, also condemned President Buhari’s silence on the NDDC board during his recent speech to inaugurate the hostel project completed by the commission in Uyo, Akwa Ibom State. He said though the extension of Effiong Akwa’s tenure as the Sole Administrator of NDDC expired on December 31, 2021, the Presidency was doing nothing to inaugurate the NDDC Board. His words: “We condemn the silence of Mr. President on this board matter. President Muhammadu Buhari portrayed himself as an insensitive leader, when he failed to speak on the matter during his recent speech to inaugurate the hostel project built by NDDC at the University of Uyo, Akwa Ibom State. “It is obvious that persons surrounding the President and who wrote that speech for him are misrepresenting him, because the real Buhari that we know would have inaugurated the NDDC board, at least, as a new year gift to the Niger Delta people, who gave him the goodwill of regional peace like no other”. The IYC boss said the council would continue to demand transparency and accountability in NDDC and called on the President to make the forensic audit report of the commission public.