Victor Ogunje in Ado Ekiti As the January 22, 2022 All Progressives Congress governorship primary in Ekiti State approaches, the Senator representing Ekiti Central, Senator Opeyemi Bamidele, has advised the party members to resist attempt being allegedly intensified by those he described as “moneybags” to buy their conscience. Bamidele, an aspirant, advised the party members to vote for those that can uplift the party and bring a paradigm shift to the economic facet of Ekiti, through job creation, encouragement of commercial farming, fighting corruption and allow the party members take absolute ownership of the party for the benefit of all. Bamidele spoke in Ado Ekiti through the Director General, Opeyemi Bamidele Campaign Organisation, Prince Akintade Olayisade, while appearing on a political programme tagged “Political Icon”, on a Radio Station VOICE FM 89.9 yesterday. Speaking about the contributions Bamidele has made to uplift Ekiti, Olayisade posited that he expected the Senator to be commended for sponsoring bills to attract two higher institutions to Ekiti within a spate of two and half years as a representative of the people. Olayisade lampooned those spreading the rumour of ineptitude and non-performance against Bamidele as a member of the Senate, describing the legacy of the Chairman, Senate Committee on Judiciary, Human Rights and Legal Matters, as not only outstanding, but unparalleled in the history of Ekiti. He urged those who are not abreast of Bamidele’s impressive performances as a Senator to consult the right places and get information, rather than making themselves purveyors of wrong and defaming information. On the impending party primary, Olayisade said: “APC members must open their eyes very well. We must not allow ourselves to be enslaved to moneybags. We shouldn’t allow anyone to enslave us or purchase our conscience, so that they can perpetually hold us hostage. “Let us vote for a candidate that can win election easily. One that is acceptable to Ekiti in terms of character, integrity, competence and trust. A governor that can uplift Ekiti and bring positive change. Someone who can earn Ekiti the expected respect and one who won’t act as an opportunist.” He described Bamidele as a global citizen, who has carved a niche for himself as one politician with focus on selfless service delivery and attraction of democracy dividends to the poor citizens to upgrade their standards of living. Maintaining that Bamidele has done exceptionally well in his current position, Olayisade added: “Only those ignorant of what he has done are rating him low. He remains the best Senator ever in Ekiti history. “Within the last two and half years, he had sponsored bills for the creation of Medical Science and Technology University in Iyin Ekiti. The bill had been passed by the Senate and now expecting presidential assent. “As the Chairman of Judiciary Committee of the Senate, he had also used his position to attract a Post graduate school called Law School to Ekiti. It is to be sited in Ilawe Ekiti, though he is not from Ekiti South, which shows how committed he is to the development of our dear state. “He has provided scholarship for thousands of Ekiti undergraduates and post graduate students, generate employments for many graduates, empowers widows, women, and unemployed youth for self-independence. “As of today, Senator Bamidele has provided trainings in blockmaking, fishery, poultry, confectionaries, soap making, sowing and others to over 4,000 constituents in Ekiti Central. The records are there and those feeling skeptical can check all these claims.” On why Bamidele deserves the ticket, Olayisade said he is the most experienced among the APC aspirants and the highest financier of the party during the time of lull experienced in Ekiti progressive fold after Otunba Niyi Adebayo lost election to Ayodele Fayose in 2003. “When our party had no money to finance the party after our leader, Otunba Niyi Adebayo lost, it was Senator Bamidele that was financing the party. We are not claiming that he was the only one, but his contributions surpassed every other person. “He paid the rent of the party Secretariat that we are still using in Ajilosun for seven years. The party could attest to this. So, he had served the party well and makes relevant sacrifices to strengthen the progressive party in our dear state.”