Okon Bassey in Uyo Eleven states that are yet to domesticate the Child Rights Act of 2003, which was enacted by the federal government to reduce child abuse in the country, have been told to do so without further delay. The President of the Pediatrician Association of Nigeria (PAN), Dr. Edward Alikor, said that these states include Kebbi, Kano, Katsina, Sokoto, Jigawa, Zamfara, Bauchi, Yobe, Gombe, Borno and Adamawa. Alikor disclosed this yesterday during a press briefing in Uyo, Akwa Ibom State, to mark the 52nd/53rd Annual General Meeting/ Scientific Conference tagged, PANCONF UYO 2022. The theme of the conference is; “Child Abuse: An Escalating Menace in Nigeria.” He said that the inability of the 11 states, all in the northern path of the country, to domesticate the child rights act was a serious issue to the pediatrician association. Alikor explained that domestication of the law would increase child protection and reduce the chances of child abuse in the country. He said the fundamental principle of the association is to look after children and their welfare wherever they are in the country. According to him, six out of every 10 Nigerian children have suffered one form of abuse or the other, which called for serious concern among stakeholders. He said: “Nigeria is notorious in child abuse. It is estimated that six out of 10 children in this country have suffered one form of abuse or the other; for boys, 10 per cent and for girls, 25 per cent. So, you can see is a major issue. “All of the 11 states are in the northern path of the country, help us advocates for domestication of the law and its execution. It is the relevance of what we have gathered to discuss in Uyo,” Alikor said. He said the association formed about 60 years ago with membership of over 1000 across the country has been using the conference over the years to discuss issues concerning children. The PAN, he said, would use the conference to create public awareness on the issues concerning child abuse and measures to eradicate them. “Every third week of January, we come together to have discussions relating to this fundamental objective of our association. “We move from one path of the country to another. The last time we gathered was in Kano State and before then we were in Ibadan, Oyo State, and today we are in Uyo in Akwa Ibom State, and in each occassion we have a theme and this year’s theme is: “Child Abuse: An Escalating Menace in Nigeria,” he said.