A new date has been fixed for the opening of the latest super event centre in Lagos: HighPoint. With Thursday, February 3, 2022, confirmed as the D-day, the opening of the HighPoint Event Center will be nothing but spectacularly grand. The brains behind HighPoint, Mrs. Omolara Adebiyi intends to give the guests something to think and talk about as 2022 unfolds. Thus, with her status as HighPoint CEO, her colourful achievements will be matched with the vibrant event in which her relatives, friends, business associates, and admirers can clink a glass or two in her honour. Lest the public assumes that HighPoint is like every other event centre in Lagos, a trip to the heart-beat of Lagos, Alausa in Ikeja should wind down any such erroneous assumption. Omolara established HighPoint over an enormous stretch of land that is estimated at 10,000 square meters. Inside this superb piece of real estate are features that can send the mind into a trance. These include two fitly framed floors that can accommodate a total of 3,000 individuals, For the capacity, the Banquet floor is 1000, while the theatre floor is 2000. HighPoint’s VIP lounge is something else that stretches the natural limits of the eye. The 18 single-bed rooms can only be described as Dubai-level luxurious. And how does one describe the two-bedroom suites for lodging and accommodation or the 500-vehicle car park with its air-tight security? Indeed, HighPoint as a masterpiece is set to change the face of event centres in the city of aquatic splendour. It is a testament of class, pristine and exquisitely polished. The building emphasises without much effort the sheer tastefulness of the owner. The attention to detail that characterizes the structure is excellent. Irrefutably, both the interior and exterior decor were carefully chosen and planned with flawless finesse. All of these will be showcased to the event guests. The lucky guests are expected to delightedly help Omolara inaugurate the next-level edifice, laying the foundation for future copies from peers. With the introduction of HighPoint, it is now clear that Omolara’s ceiling of vision and achievements is farther than the azure sky. She continues to distinguish herself as an industrious woman of substance, accomplished industrialist, and entrepreneur par excellence. As a virtuous woman, Omolara will always find reasons to add more to her husband’s high-flying fortunes. She will continue to take great steps in this dimension, especially when her husband is widely acknowledged as being in the vanguard of great achievers and pioneers in Nigeria.