Victor Ogunje in Ado Ekiti An Ekiti State High Court in Ado Ekiti, has sentenced a dismissed Soldier, Olasoji Damilola and one Koiki Tunde Benson to death by hanging for armed robbery. The court also slammed life imprisonment on one Ogbesetuyi Tunde for offence of conspiracy and attempted robbery. In his judgment on Monday, Justice Lekan Ogunmoye, said: “The prosecution has proved beyond reasonable doubt the elements of offences of conspiracy, attempted robbery and armed robbery against the defendants. “In count two (armed robbery) the first and second defendants, Olasoji Damilola and Koiki Tunde Benson are sentenced to death by hanging. May God almighty have mercy upon your souls. “In other counts , the three defendants are sentenced to life imprisonment”. According to the charge, the three defendants on 10th March, 2016 conspired anzd attempted to rob a Filling Station along Ikere Road, Ado Ekiti. Also on 15th May, 2016, Olasoji Damilola, a soldier , who was Court Marshialled and dismissed during the pendency of the case alongside Koiki Tunde Benson conspired and robbed one Oluwadare Adebayo at a Filling Station in Odo-Ado, Ado Ekiti and carted away a sum of N1,204,750. The suspects were said to have been armed wiith guns and other offensive weapons during the robbery. The offences run contrary to Sections 6(b) and 1 (2) (a) of the Robbery and Firearms (Special Provisions) Act, Cap. RII, Vol.14, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria 2004. In his testimony, the victim told the court that around 6:30pm, the defendants came to the filling station in pretence of buying fuel, they forced their way into the Station’s bulk room, while begging them, one of them slapped him while the other one hit him with gunbutt on the head and became unconscious. One of the convicts, Koiki had escaped with the money while Olasoji Damilola was arrested at the scene. To prove his case, the Prosecutor Olawale Fapohunda(SAN), called two witnesses and tendered wallet, two passport photographs, Army Identity card and statements of the convicts , among others as exhibits. The defendants spoke through their counsel in their own defence and called one witness