•Urges Nigerians to vote credible candidates Emma Okonji and Nosa Alekhuogie Following the recent visit of former Lagos State Governor, Senator Bola Tinubu to President Muhammadu Buhari to inform the latter of his resolve to contest for the Presidency in the 2023 general elections, a former National Vice -Chairman, South-west zone, of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Bode George, has described next year’s presidential election as a matter of life and death for the nation. He, therefore, advised Nigerians to come out in millions to vote and ensure that only credible persons are elected into political offices. The PDP leader spoke yesterday on ‘The Morning Show,’ a programme monitored on Arise News Channels, the broadcast arm of THISDAY Newspapers. However, he pointed out that regardless of the circumstances , the APC leader has the right to make his intentions known. George expressed displeasure with the APC-led federal government on the issue of indirect primaries, arguing that direct primaries would ensure transparency in any given election. He also revealed that persons who are completely dissatisfied with the APC in Lagos would be joining the PDP in the coming days. The former lawmaker also condemned Tinubu’s statement of ‘being a kingmaker and now wanting to be a King’ calling it a fallacy. “In a civilised society, democracy is so vital and it’s important to do whatever it takes to make it succeed. Looking at his past and all he has done, his wanting to run for president is an insult to us. “My party is ready and it will not be a dog fight as we centre ourselves on justice, fairness and equity,” George said. He reiterated the fact that he had no personal issues with Tinubu, but insisted that he knew some facts about the former Lagos governor. Speaking further, he alleged that the APC leader appropriated all the resources of Lagos State for his personal use when he governed the state. He said: “We should have people whose character is sellable anywhere in the world.” He also used the platform to plead to the media to be on top of their game, stating that this year would be critical for the future of Nigeria. Fielding questions about his political party, the PDP chieftain, however argued that even though they disagree on some issues, they have a culture, norms and methodologies by which they manage themselves in the opposition party. “There is no God-fatherism in PDP and it is not the private company of any individual. All of us unanimously own that party and before we come out, there will be meetings and discussions as that is the essence of democracy,” George said. Reacting to claims that he was jealous of the APC leader, he clarified the air stating that he had no personal vendetta against him, maintaining that the day of reckoning for him would definitely come. On the other hand, the former Governor of Ogun State, Chief Olusegun Osoba has confirmed rumors that George was indeed bitter towards Tinubu. According to him, the PDP chieftain believes that Tinubu has a hand in his problems. “He has a right to make comments and he displays his bitterness because he attacks me unfairly but as usual, I’ll take him for what he is,” he said. Speaking about the late interim Head of state of Nigeria, Ernest Shonekan and how the emergence of the Interim National Government (ING) was a catalyst for further division in the country, the ex- governor explained that the situation was a high power conspiracy theory by Sani Abacha. He maintained that it all tested on the late Abacha and his determination to take over government in Nigeria. “Shonekan was unfortunately just being innocently used particularly by Abacha who eventually asked him to sign a resignation letter almost at gun point. It was a high power coup to get rid of Ibrahim Babangida, Shonekan, MKO Abiola and gear towards Abacha becoming the Head of state,” he said.