Sunday Ehigiator West African Seasoning Company Limited (WASCO), makers of Aji-no-moto food seasoning product, in its renewed awareness drive, has taken its safety campaign on the food seasoning to Health Writers Association of Nigeria (HEWAN). Speaking at an annual symposium aimed at building confidence in COVID-19 vaccines, which was recently held also to introduce the company’s newest addition, ‘DeliDawa’ seasoning to the association, WASCO’s Corporate Communications manager; Francisca Ikediashi affirmed that Aji-no-moto food seasoning also known as Monosodium Glutamate (MSG), was safe for consumption as the product had long been scientifically proven safe for consumption. According to her, Aji-no-moto which has been in existence for over 100 years is consumed in over 130 countries by enhancing taste and increasing the deliciousness of food. “It helps in salt reduction in our cooking and also enhances the deliciousness of our meals. The Umami taste harmonises the overall flavour without any compromise to the delicious taste of our meals. “Aji-no-moto is simply made from sugarcane through the natural process of fermentation and therefore, 100 per cent safe for consumption.” Educating participants further, Ikediashi noted that Aji-no-moto has been safely used as a food ingredient since 1909 after it was discovered by a Japanese scientist, Dr. Kikunae Ikeda, adding that the product is registered in Nigeria by the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC). “The benefits of the seasoning include enhancing and promoting the deliciousness of our meals; it is economical; it reduces salt intake and it is rich in glutamate one of the free amino acids. “WASCO is committed to helping Nigerians eat healthy by bringing out the natural taste in cooking through safe and cost-effective seasonings, urging them to dispel any myth or misconception about Aji-no-moto through their write-ups. “Umami substance is present in most natural foods such as meat, seafood, vegetables, cheese, and milk. Glutamate is also abundant in breast milk. Umami seasoning enhances the taste of dishes and is a universal taste. “It is one of the five basic tastes along with sweet, sour, salty, and bitter. We have a lot of glutamate in our local foods. Iru, for instance, is umami. When you take Iru, you take a lot of glutamates,” she explained. President of HEWAN, Mrs. Chioma Obinna in her response, commended WASCO for supporting and contributing to the success of the symposium, assuring that members of the association would continue to provide consumers with factual information about the product through their stories. “This awareness is a welcome development. A lot of our members have today been sensitised about the safety of your product as a brand that is an essential seasoning for every meal. “Now that the company has partnered us for awareness creation, we are very happy. We now must take the information to the public,” she said.