Kingsley Nwezeh in Abuja The federal government yesterday warned that it would not condone any act of abuse and mishandling of equipment and facilities provided to tackle security threats in the country. President Muhammadu Buhari handed down the warning at the inauguration of 200 Buffalo branded operational vehicles, bulletproof vests, protective helmets, drugs, and medical equipment to the Nigeria Police to aid policing in the country. The president, who spoke at the Louis Edet Police Force Headquarters in Abuja, expressed optimism that the Inspector-General of Police (IG) and his management team, would commit officers and men of the Nigerian Police to reciprocate government’s efforts through judicious and effective use of the facilities for improvement of Nigerian security architecture. “I am convinced that the IG and his management team, will commit officers and men of the Nigerian Police Force to reciprocate government’s efforts through judicious and effective use of this facility for improvement of Nigerian security architecture as the government will not condone any act of abuse and mal-handling of the facilities provided from very limited resources. Buhari, who was represented by the Minister of Police Affairs, Alhaji Mohammed Dingyadi, tasked officers and men of the Nigeria Police Force to continue to show commitment in the discharge of their duties and to adopt a holistic internal security mechanism in the country so as to ensure the provision of conducive environment needed to boost operations of the Nigeria Police Force and by extension emplace a more peaceful and safe country for economic buoyancy, and improved livelihood for the citizenry. He noted that the recent federal executive council’s approval of an enhanced salaries packages and other allowances for the Nigeria Police further affirms his administration’s commitment to enhance policing and deserved commendations from well-meaning Nigerians. “I congratulate the board of trustee, management and staff of the Nigeria Police Trust Fund for meticulously and meritoriously completing the execution of this projects, marking commencement of commissioning of numerous interventions, through equipping, training and modernisation of policing infrastructure in line with this administrations’ mandates to deepen security and safety nationwide. “In this connection, let me also applaud the initiative to select this brand of Buffalo Trucks which are adjudged rugged and capable of withstanding varied geographical terrains and atmospheric conditions. There is no gain saying that the establishment of the Nigeria Police Trust Fund is very timely and apt as it came at a time when government is determined more than ever before to holistically address the various security challenges confronting our great country Nigeria”, he said. He maintained that achieving the overall objectives of the trust fund, should be internalised as the collective aspiration of all Nigerians in order to bridge the funding gap in policing by providing the NPF with required operational tools, equipment, training and re-training of personnel as well as motivation of officers and men through improved welfare”. In his address of welcome, the IG, Mr. Usman Alkali, called on all Nigerians, corporate bodies, and multinational organisations to key into the goals of the trust fund to enable it to accomplish its laudable objectives for the Nigeria Police Force and the nation at large. “The trust fund currently depends substantially on the revenue accruing from the federation account for the implementation of its programmes and activities. With the dwindling state of national revenue, it is obvious that this source of revenue alone cannot sustain the trust fund in the attainment of its mandate of re-positioning the Nigeria Police to change the internal security narratives of our beloved country,” he said. In his remarks, the Secretary of the NPTF, Alhaji Ahmed Sokoto, put the cost equipment at N8 billion. The equipment include 1,300 units of bullet proof vests, 200 Buffalo Trucks and COVID-19 equipment, drugs, among others.