By Vanessa Obioha Stepping into the serene reception of the luxe Yacht Hotel in the Lekki axis of Lagos State, one is drawn to the laser cut art donning one of the walls. To an ordinary eye, this elevated form of art can just be another interior design but ‘Grace of the Yacht’ as it is aptly named is more than just another piece of art. The laser-cut piece is shaped like a yacht, depicting the symbol of the boutique hotel. With a rusty finish, the steel sheet has a thickness of 20mm and is delicately cut in such a way that the back of the piece is not bulky but flat. It stands tall at 250cm with a width of 360cm. The interior lighting of the piece adds to the aesthetics, especially in the dark and gives a detailed look of the laser symbols. Specifically customised for the hotel, ‘Grace of the Yacht’ unarguably is the most expensive art ever owned by a hotel in Lagos, and its price is equivalent to a luxury car. It is designed by Guangzhou Steel Master Building Materials Co. Ltd., China, the same company that designed the golden panels of Burj Arab’s elevator walls in Dubai. As a very delicate process of cutting precise patterns into wood, metal, plastic or any other materials, laser cutting is an evolving trend that is turning art into luxury. But due to the engineering process involved, it is becoming a marvel to scientists as well. Like Eyitayo Fakehinde, the owner of the luxury boutique hotel puts it “the art and science of laser cut art sparks an intellectual debate.” Not a few guests have stopped to stare at the artwork, marvelling at the intricacies of its design. “One of the guests, an aeronautical engineer, could not stop staring at the piece. Indeed, it creates the impression of making the impossible possible.” This in a way reflects the goals of the hotel which opened in 2020 but was derailed by the coronavirus pandemic. However, when it officially opened last year, it was to well-heeled guests who basked in the tranquility and class of the ambience. The Yacht Hotel prides itself as a hotel that offers conservative class and luxury. It is no wonder then that Fakehinde was immediately attracted to the ‘Grace of the Yacht’ when the design was sent to him. It looks abstract and ordinary to an untrained eye. “When you look at the hotel from the outside, it’s so ordinary until you step inside that you start seeing the luxury inside. We are conservative, strong with so much beauty inside. When you are coming to The Yacht, you are coming to enjoy a classy experience,” he said. This is not unexpected from the optician cum hospitality mogul who is transforming the waterfront of Lekki. He is the owner of the popular Sailors Lounge and possesses an uncanny knack for hosting the most stylish events on water. Like Sailors Lounge, Fakehinde who is fondly referred to as Captain is adding more panache to the seafront with The Yacht Hotel. Designed like a yacht, it boasts 25 rooms with sea and city views, a spa and restaurants. However, its most sought-after service is its exquisite helipad lounge for members of its prestigious club The Admirals. Reserved for people with value and intellect, the club has a limited membership of 100. “Screening procedure for membership is very high,” he stated. “Membership is not based on money but clout. Everything about us is more of an intellectual base. We have just 25 rooms because we don’t want to be seen as a commercial hotel. We attract people that understand what class is.” In his view, class represents wealth, maturity, style and intellectual capacity. Calling the science infused artwork a hidden treasure, Fakehinde revealed that he named the piece after his mother because of the qualities she represented. It took about 90 days to get the work completed and it was finally delivered to him in 2019. With most hotels turning into a major art hub, The Yacht Hotel which also boasts an art gallery is considering having a quarterly art exhibition. During its opening ceremony last year, it featured artworks from Omolayo Gallery. Perhaps, ‘Grace of the Yacht’ will attract more high net income earners with a penchant for a luxury experience and intellectual exchange.