Victor Ogunje in Ado Ekiti Following the controversy that nearly ripped the group apart over its stand on the Ekiti State governorship race, the Southwest Agenda for Tinubu 2023 presidential ambition (SWAGA) has backed the aspiration of the former Works Minister, Senator Dayo Adeyeye, for the January 27 All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship primary. The group stated that they decided to back Adeyeye in view of their unflinching belief that he possesses the competence capability, cognate experience and the cognitive knack to lead the state as governor and reform the state in all spheres. Shortly after Adeyeye entered the governorship race, some chieftains of the group had raised reservations over such attempt, which created divide within SWAGA, thereby igniting apathy within the group. SWAGA took the decision to endorse Adeyeye for the coveted seat at its reunion meeting held in Ado Ekiti yesterday where top echelons of the group, including an Australian-based medical doctor and SWAGA chieftain, Dr. Wole Oluyede, was present. Addressing journalists after the meeting, Oluyede saluted Adeyeye, who is the national coordinator of the pro-Tinubu group, describing SWAGA as a formidable political movement in Ekiti State APC and across Nigeria determined to entrench the doctrine of good governance in the country. Oluyede exuded confidence that the former senator wouldn’t betray the trust reposed in him, adding that he stands a good chance of clinching the APC ticket banking on SWAGA’s well spread tentacles across the 177 wards of the state. Lending credence to Oluyede’s submission, the SWAGA state Chairman, Chief Tony Adeniyi, described SWAGA as an unstoppable political movement in the state. “SWAGA is a strong and formidable; this accounted for why some politicians wanted to destabilise the highly focused group that was formed to bring a paradigm shift in the way the people are governed,” he stated. Also, a former House of Representatives member, Hon. Oyetunde Ojo, added that the hospitality and solidarity in SWAGA would give the members a strong determination to work tirelessly to clinch the APC ticket for Adeyeye in the primary. According to him, “We have buried our differences and have come together to forge a common front to face the battle ahead. With this united house, our opponents who have been hoping that we will never come back together now know that the game is over. Victory is assured for us by the grace of God.” While responding, Adeyeye appreciated the gesture and charged the group to act as true defenders and proponents of democracy by preventing those planning to disrupt the primary from accomplishing their ‘devilish’ mission. The former minister alluded to the APC primary as an armless liberation war that is targeted at fostering the culture of good governance and create a pedestal for egalitarian society, where all citizens will be equal in term of unfettered access to governance and other opportunities.