John Shiklam in Kaduna Nine people have been killed while five others were critically injured following attacks by bandits on communities in Zaria and Igabi Local Government Areas of Kaduna State. Security operatives were also said to have killed two bandits who were retreating to the forest. The Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan confirmed this in a statement yesterday , saying that the security forces reported the incidents to the state government. The bandits were also said to have rustled hundreds of animals. Aruwan said: “The security forces have reported to the Kaduna State Government that nine citizens have been killed, with five injured and hundreds of animals rustled by bandits during three attacks across Igabi and Zaria local government areas. “According to the first report, bandits attacked Kudu da Gari settlement in Sabon Birni, Igabi LGA and killed seven residents, listed as: Dahiru Bilya, Jibrin Bilya, Dayyabu Adamu, Bashir Habibu Jabir Shuaibu, Buhari Habibu and Abubakar Habibu”. He said four pepple were left critically injured and were rushed to a medical facility for treatment. The statement said: “In another incident, bandits invaded a herders’ settlement called Ruggar Goshe, on the outskirts of Kangimin Sarki village, Rigachikun, Igabi LGA and Auwal Koshe was shot dead by the brigands, who then rustled about 250 goats and sheep from the settlement.” Aruwan said in yet another incident, “bandits attacked another herders’ settlement at Filin Idin Barebare, Zaria LGA, where they killed one Abubakar Mohammad while one Abubakar Aliyu sustained gunshot injuries on his ribs, and is receiving medical attention. “The bandits then rustled an unspecified number of cattle from the settlement.” He added that security operatives also reported that two bandits were neutralized around the outskirts of Tumbau village, Kerawa, Igabi LGA. “The bandits were retreating to the Malul forest when they were intercepted by the troops, and two of them were neutralized in the ensuing firefight, with an AK-47 rifle recovered”, Aruwan added. He said Governor Nasir El-Rufai expressed grief at the reports of the attacks, and “prayed for the repose of the souls of the citizens who lost their lives and sent his deepest condolences to their families.“Governor El-Rufai commended the troops for their alertness and swift response during the engagement which saw two bandits neutralized. Patrols and monitoring have been sustained by security agency in the general areas”, the commissioner said.