Chiemelie Ezeobi Commissioner of Police Abiodun Alabi has assumed office as the 37th CP for Lagos State Command. The new CP was recently posted to the state following the elevation of the immediate past CP, Hakeem Odumosu to the rank of Assistant Inspector-General(AIG) of Police and subsequent redeployment to the Force Headquarters, Abuja as AIG Federal Operations (FEDOPS). After the handover, CP Abiodun promised robust policing through intelligence gathering, inter-agency collaboration, public partnership and more importantly, respect for fundamental human rights of all citizens. He said: “Although Lagos State is undoubtedly a familiar turf for me having served in the state for many years in different capacities, nevertheless, it has become necessary to bring to the fore my template and policing vision visibility policing and dominance of security space by ensuring the presence of policemen at all times to deter criminals as a preventive measure and ensure that Rapid Response Squad is encouraged and strengthened to respond promptly and effectively to citizens’ concerns. “Respect for fundamental Human Rights by ensuring that no breach of Human Rights will be tolerated under my command and watch. “Our men’s conduct while discharging their duties must be in conformity with our professional ethics especially with issues of corruption and extra judicial killing and act of incivility to members of the public. “We will strive to build confidence and trust in members of the public particularly with state actors and non-state actors through intelligence led community policing. “Area commanders and divisional police officers will be encouraged to meet regularly with non state actors to ensure common problems confronting their various areas of responsibilities are collectively addressed. “I will not be allergic to constructive criticism but will see it as an information to rejig our security architecture for our policing strategy. “Therefore, I will encourage collaboration with the fourth estate of the realm and appeal that issues concerning our policing policies in the state are brought to my knowledge promptly. “ I will also endeavour to hold parleys with journalists where solutions will be tabled and addressed in amicable manner. Some dedicated lines will be rolled out to members of the public for accessibility and feedback to members of the public on issues of our common safety and security. “The trends and patterns of crime will continually be monitored to ensure crime mapping of the state to enable us devise appropriate crime preventing strategies. “Issues of gang disturbance or wars will be holistically addressed and those intransigent will face consequences of their actions. “I will strengthen interagency collaboration and synergy with a robust and healthy relationship with heads of security agencies in Lagos State in management of the state.” Although the new CP has carved a niche for himself as a highly disciplined, courageous crime fighter, professional and thorough-bread police officer with knack for intelligence, investigations, administration and operations, he is however expected to bring his wealth of experience to bear on policing in Lagos State. According to the state Police Public Relations Officer, CSP Adekunle Ajisebutu, CP Abiodun Alabi is an alumnus of the prestigious University of Lagos, Akoka where he bagged a Bachelor of Science degree in Sociology. He also holds a Master’s degree from the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, Osun State. Appointed as a cadet Assistant Superintendent of Police on March 3, 1990, CP Alabi has vast experience in policing spanning over three decades.