Emma Okonji In line with its commitment to widening digital inclusion in Africa with affordable broadband connectivity, particularly to the continent’s underserved populations, Tizeti, West Africa’s pioneer solar-based internet service provider is launching its 4G LTE network in Oyo State. The service comes with an introductory offer N2,222 or $5 for monthly fixed broadband and installation costs. The launch will provide significant opportunities for cities in Oyo State, that have not had sufficient broadband infrastructure and will improve the state’s competitiveness with high-speed, and affordable broadband internet from Tizeti. Speaking about the launch, the Chief Executive Officer of Tizeti, Kendall Ananyi, said the 4G broadband internet would empower more Nigerians in Oyo State, stimulate economic activities and provide unlimited access to affordable and reliable broadband services as well as complement the initiatives of Oyo State Government’s efforts in driving eGovernment implementation, digital access and investment promotion. “Launching our 4G LTE internet offering in Oyo State is a strategic decision after we saw what the Oyo State Governor, Mr. Seyi Makinde is doing through the ICT & eGovernance ministry. Oyo State is a leading state in digital technology infrastructure development and digital technology human capital development, as evidenced by the state’s achievement in the area of ICT infrastructure development, harmonized fiber infrastructure policy, and proposed zero tariffs on Right of Way costs,” Ananyi said. He added: “The governor’s efforts at implementing reforms in investment promotion, prioritizing Information Communication Technology (ICT)-compliant digital skills for civil servants and students as well as individuals in rural clusters, persons living with disabilities, and other disadvantaged groups are signposts of the state’s agenda in enabling digital inclusion. When the efforts of the state are placed side-by-side with its large population of vibrant, young people, and its high number of higher institutions – a foundation for a robust and thriving digital ecosystem – it made sense to provide residents of Oyo State with our low-cost broadband service. This effort, we believe, will encourage employment, educational and economic opportunities in the state and help its government to quickly build digital leadership in Nigeria”, Ananyi added. The company promised to expand to 10 new cities in Nigeria, building brand-new, solar-powered, 4G-capable towers in these cities and leveraging expansive fiber-networks built by some of its partners, including MainOne and Facebook, to bring millions of people online, and deliver the life-changing socio-economic opportunities that access to the Internet provides. Tizeti is currently available in Lagos, Ogun, Rivers, and Edo States. Tizeti’s Chief Operating Officer, Ifeanyi Okonkwo, said: “Tizeti was built to tackle poor internet connectivity not only in Nigeria but on the continent as a whole, by developing a cost-effective solution from inception to delivery, for reliable and uncapped internet access for potentially millions of Africans. “The launch in Oyo State is a commitment to becoming the number one ISP in Africa. With this initial promo price of N2,222, this is the cheapest fixed internet package in Africa! This will go a long way in driving the adoption of broadband internet in Oyo State, with huge implications for online learning, eCommerce, and entertainment, especially interactive games, video, and music consumption. installations will commence in Ibadan on April 1st, 2022.”