Ibrahim Oyewale in Lokoja In line with determination to ensure self-reliance and sustainable development among the people of Kogi West Senatorial District in view of the present economic reality the country, Senator Smart Adeyemi, has distributed empowerment items worth several millions of Naira to the people of his constituency to improve their wellbeing. At least over 1,000 beneficiaries from Kogi West Senatorial District went away with self-sustainable items, which would up lift their standard of living at weekend. Items distributed among others are 50 tricycles (Keke-Napep), while 50 motorcycles for commercial purposes, 40 water pumps, 115 grinding machines, 100 sewing machines, thirty set of computers and cash worth over 10 million were given away to the beneficiaries. While speaking at the presentation of the empowerment items to the beneficiaries at his Iyara country- home, in Ijumu Local Government of Kogi State, Senator Adeyemi, said the gesture was a way of appreciating his constituents for finding him worthy to represent them for the third term in the senate. He expressed gratitude to the people for their support, stressing that he could only appreciate the good gesture by giving back to the people of Kogi West Senatorial District, who he described as democrats and patriotic politicians. He noted that he will continue to deliver on his campaign promises and urged Kogites to support the administration of Governor Yahaya Bello for the betterment of the state. The Chairman of Okun Traditional Council and the Obaro of Kabba, His Royal Majesty, Oba Solomon Dele Owoniyi, commended Senator Adeyemi for touching the lives of people across board. According to the royal father, “any elected official that perform, we’ll continue to pray for him and whoever do the opposite, we’ll not curse him, but we would not pray for him.” Also speaking, Leader of APC in Lokoja Local Government, who spoke on behalf of Lokoja / Kogi Federal Constituency, Hon. Sulaiman Babadoko, expressed appreciation to Senator Adeyemi. Babadoko, who described the lawmaker as an uncommon senator, commended him for bringing succour to his people at this period of economic crunch through various projects and empowerment items. He added ” Right from our days in PDP, Senator Smart Adeyemi was an outspoken leader who always fight against injustice, he is a progressive and fearless politician who touches the lives of his Constituents, that’s why I always give him my support 100 percent” Babadoko said. Dignitaries from walks of life attended the event including he Olu- Jumu of Ijumu, Oba Ayeni Olusegun Williams, and others across the seven local government areas. It would be recalled that Senator Adeyemi had instituted bursary award for the 350 students of higher institutions of learning from the seven local government areas of Kogi West. The bursary award which gulped over N20 million would be a yearly programme to support the students of Kogi West origin and to encourage those in secondary school students to aim higher to further their studies.