By Onuminya Ochowechi In Sokoto The Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) Sokoto, Zamfara Area Command said it generated N2,329,765,906.73 revenue for the year 2021. In a statement, the command Public Relations Officer, Assistant superintendent of Customs (ASCI) Tahir Balarabe Yusuf said this is the highest revenue collected so far by the Command compared to the previous years. Yusuf said the command made a seizure of 22 different kinds of contrabands with a duty paid value (DPV) of N188,583,368 .00 stressing that three suspects were arrested but were granted administrative bail. Yusuf further disclosed that the Area Controller, Comptroller Abdulhameed Ma’aji attributed the successes recorded in the period under review to the enabling environment giving to the command by the Comptroller General Col. Hameed Ali (Rtd.) and the active management of the Nigeria Customs Service as well as the resilience and commitment of the Officers and men of the Command who carried out their duties in line with extant laws and regulations of the Service. He maintained that the Controller recalled the Command had recorded the first formal documented export value chain of Onion through the Illela Border on the 25th of February, 2021 which has significantly enhanced Onion production in Sokoto and contributed to the foreign reserve of the country. Yusuf said the Controller, appreciated Hameed Ali for the provision of logistics including operational vehicles, which has boosted the moral of the officers that enhanced fight against smuggling activities within the area of coverage. The controller also appreciated the efforts and cooperation of other units of the Service like Customs Intelligence Unit (CIU), Customs Police Unit (CPU), Border Drill, Strike force and Federal Operations Unit Zone ‘B’ (FOU ‘B’) as well as other Security Agencies and stakeholders in the actualization of these records. He therefore solicited for cooperation and more supports from the Traditional leaders and border communities to enable the command do more in this year 2022. He urged the general public to join the Service in the advocacy against the peril of smuggling to the Nation’s economy, just as he warned economic saboteurs to desist from their illegal business as it Officers are always vigilant to uncover any form of unlawful trade.