•Plan to throw presidential ticket open, ridiculous, says PANDEF •Middle Belt Forum vows to mobilise against any northern presidential candidate •Be ready to collapse, Ohanaeze Ndigbo tells main opposition party Deji Elumoye in Abuja, Christopher Isiguzo in Enugu and Seriki Adinoyi in Jos Condemnations have trailed the alleged plan by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to shun the clamour for power shift from the North to the South in 2023. While the Middle Belt Forum (MBF) has vowed to mobilise against any political party that fields a northerner as its presidential candidate, the Ohanaeze Ndigbo has stated that PDP’s plan to throw the presidential ticket open would lead to the eventual collapse of the opposition party. On its part, the Pan Niger Delta Forum (PANDEF) has described PDP’s move as ridiculous. National Publicity Secretary of the main opposition party, Mr Debo Ologunagba, had reportedly declared that the party would not stop northern presidential aspirants from contesting, adding that the party would leave the presidential ticket open to all the geopolitical zones. Reacting to this development, the President of Middle Belt Forum (MBF), Dr Bitrus Pogu, told THISDAY that the Northern region has no moral right to contest next year’s presidential election after the eight years of President Mohammadu Buhari. He vowed that the Middle Belt and South regions would mobilise against any political party that selects a northerner as its presidential candidate. “The PDP statement, I understand was from the Publicity Secretary of the party. The final statement will come from its National Chairman after a National Working Committee (NWC) or National Executive Council (NEC) meeting. “I believe the PDP will see the reason why it should not present a northern candidate, knowing also that the Middle Belt Forum and the South strongly advocate the mobilisation of their members to work against any political party that selects a northerner as a presidential candidate. “We need to address our security and development issues, and the North does not have the moral right to the presidency after eight years of President Buhari,” he explained. Be Ready for a Requiem, Ohanaeze Ndigbo Tells Main Opposition Party On its part, the apex Igbo socio-cultural organisation, Ohanaeze Ndigbo yesterday described PDP’s plan to throw its presidential ticket open as the most unfortunate decision that if not quickly reversed would lead to the eventual collapse of the opposition party. The National Publicity Secretary of the organisation, Chief Alex Chiedozie Ogbonnia in an interview with THISDAY said it was sad that the party had refused to reciprocate the kind gesture of the people of the South-east over the years. While describing the current agitation for the emergence of the next president from the South-east zone as one based on equity, Ogbonnia said the organisation remained unfazed in its agitation. “I must tell you that we feel so bad that a party that has enjoyed tremendous support of the Igbos would come out boldly to throw the presidency open not minding our very just and fair agitation. “From 1999 till date, we have continued to support the PDP. In 1999, despite what the party did to our leader, Dr Alex Ekwueme, we still supported Obasanjo. In 2007, we supported Yar’Adua, sustained the support for Jonathan. And today, the best way to pay us back is for the party to throw its ticket open. This is very unfortunate,” he said. The Ohanaeze spokesman further noted that the Igbo nation will sustain its agitation until such a time when the whole world will come to the reality that we must have the presidency. “Today, we have so many of our people who have declared their intention to seek the presidency of the country come 2023, that’s to show you how ready we are,” he said. Ogbonnia however warned that should the PDP refuse to change its decision and reserve the ticket for only candidates from the South-east, it must be ready to face a requiem. “This will certainly be the end of PDP. They still have the opportunity of doing the needful. If they fail to do the right thing, it will be the end of the party. From 1999 till date, the other two legs of the tripod have had the presidency, the Hausas, the Yorubas have had their fair share, Even the South-south have had their share and yet the Igbos are treated with levity,” he added. Also reacting, the Pan Niger Delta Forum (PANDEF) has described as ridiculous the move by the main opposition party to jettison zoning and throw open the 2023 presidential race to all interested aspirants. The group also said it would watch and see how far the party can go with the arrangement. PANDEF’s National Publicity Secretary, Hon. Ken Robinson, made the position of the group known in an interview with THISDAY yesterday. “Suffice to say, it’s a ridiculous decision. We have sufficiently made our position known on this matter. We’ll wait to see how it will go,” he added.