Chuks Okocha in Abuja Some members of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) have faulted the comments of the party’s elected governors that the party is stable after the October 30 and 31 2021 national convention, stating it is misleading and deceptive statement intended to misdirect and prejudice the minds of discerning and genuine party members . The members stated clearly that as things are, that it is the Supreme Court that will decide that all is well within the party as the convention that brought the Iyorchia Ayu led party was conducted against the constitution of the party. In separate statements issued by former Adviser to former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, Dr. Umar and Umar Sani, former media adviser to former Vice President of Nigeria, Namadi Sambo in Abuja, they faulted the last national convention insisting that it was illegally conducted against the PDP constitution . According to Umar Sani, the October 2021 conventional. “is illegal and illicit actions leading to the convening of an unconstitutional national convention through underhand dealings which denied its rightful National Chairman the powers to exercise his mandate freely given to him by the National delegates of the party at the Dec 2017 National Convention”. Both Umar Ado and Umar Sani are reacting to the PDP communique in Port Harcourt, which said, “The PDP Governors congratulated the entire PDP family for conducting a smooth and credible National Convention that led to the emergence of the highly acclaimed Senator Dr. Iyorchia Ayu-led National Executive Committee and commended the new PDP NWC for hitting the ground running with respect to repositioning the PDP into a credible vehicle for RESCUING and REBUILDING Nigeria …”. Former media aide to Namadi Sambo argued that the statement was aimed to give impression that all is well “At this time that the matter is billed for adjudication by the apex court , it is foolhardy for an unconstitutional body to convene and rain accolades on themselves and a few accomplices that assisted in truncating a credible internal democracy . “Highly influential stakeholders with large following like Dr Rabi’u Musa Kwankwaso and a silent majority are awaiting the outcome of the judicial trial to chart their political future. Therefore for a pressure group to make bogus claims of having conducted a “smooth and credible” national convention is indeed a heresy . It is a known fact that the entire exercise was characterized by flagrant violation of the party’s constitution which has resulted in litigations. “How does a political party that hopes to reclaim power from an aggressive opponent like the APC build its foundation on nothing. Unless the party build its foundation on the rule of law and natural justice it’s aspiration may be encumbered. For the avoidance of doubt the issue as to the credibility or otherwise of the purported national convention is before the highest court of the land for determination, therefore it will be reckless and amount to a political subterfuge to copiously craft and disseminate a deceptive communique which seeks to breath life to a dead action. Such an action cannot deter the cause and course of justice.” Umar Ardo in his reaction, asked, “How can the governors claimed that PDP conducted a “smooth and credible” national convention when in truth the entire exercise was conducted in breach of the very constitution of the party itself? When at the time of the exercise the matter was a subject of judicial litigation? ” How can the party also then hope to build itself into a “credible vehicle” when it’s very foundation is is in truth unconstitutional and fraudulent? Can any governor attest in truth that Secondus was removed as national chairman as stipulated by the party constitution? “The answer to all these questions is a Big No. It is the same do-gooders who, against all wise counsel, imposed Senator Ali Modu Sherrif on the party in 2016, an act that nearly destroyed the party to its very foundation, are the same adventurers that in this case dragged their state judiciary to put its seal on an unconstitutional political subterfuge which Secondus is today battling to correct at the Supreme Court in order to safe the party, safe our judiciary, safe our democracy and our country. “For all I know this is what is before the Supreme Court to determine, and therefore no amount of political trickery and copious crafting of deceptive communique by the party or its pressure groups such as the Governors’ Forum will deter the cause and course of rule of law and pursuit of justice in the effort to attain noble objectives for the party and for the country”.Dr. Umar Ardo