Kingsley Nwezeh The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), yesterday, quizzed a former Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice in Lagos State, Mr. Olasupo Shasore (SAN). Shasore was grilled by operatives of the commission over his alleged role in the Process & Industrial Development scam. THISDAY gathered that Shasore arrived the EFCC headquarters yesterday afternoon. “He came here in the afternoon. He is being quizzed over his role in the Process & Industrial Development scam,” a competent source said. It would be recalled that Justice Obiora Egwuatu of the Federal High Court, Abuja, on Monday, remanded Grace Taiga, a former Director of Legal at the Ministry of Petroleum Resources, in prison custody pending perfection of her bail condition. The defendant, who is facing prosecution by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), for allegedly receiving bribes to facilitate the award of contract in the infamous Process & Industrial Development Limited (P&ID) scam, failed to provide a surety after she was granted bail by the court sometime in October, 2021. A statement by the EFCC stated that at the resumed sitting, prosecuting counsel, Abba Muhammed, informed the court that the prosecution had a new charge, which has been served on the defendant “with additional proof of evidence. “The only difference is that we are dropping two counts, eight and nine. It is a new charge to replace the old one. It is a reduction from nine counts to seven counts.” The amended charge has the defendant’s daughter, Enameg Vera Moses Taiga, listed as an accused, who allegedly received the sum of $9,969.5 paid by Kristholm Limited, a company controlled by the owners and promoters of Process & Industrial Development Limited, through her HSBC bank account on behalf of the 1st defendant. The former charge was withdrawn and replaced with the new one. One of the counts in the amended read, “That you, Grace Taiga, Enameg Vera Moses Taiga(at large), Brendan Cahill (at large), Michael Qiunn (Deceased) on or about the 30th of January, 2012 within the jurisdiction of this Honourable Court did conspire to commit an offence to wit, money laundering by disguising the origin of the sum of $5,000 in paid by Kristholm Limited – a company controlled by the owners and promoters of Process & Industrial Development Limited, P&ID – into the HSBC bank account of Enameg Vera Moses Taiga domiciled at No.8. Canada Square, London branch of HSBC, which money you reasonably ought to have known forms part of the proceeds of unlawful act, to wit, bribery and thereby committed an offence contrary to section 18(a) and punishable under section 15(2)(a) and (3) of the Money Laundering (Prohibition) Act, 2011(as amended).”