Ismail Adebayo in Birnin Kebbi Kebbi State Governor, Abubakar Atiku Bagudu, has appealed to aggrieved members of All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state to forgive him and return to the party fold. He made the appeal ahead of the planned local government election slated for February 5. The governor, during the flagging off of the party campaign for the local government election in Kamba, Dandi Local Government Area of the state, said there was need for those who were aggrieved to forget whatever wrong done to them, return to the party fold, and join hands with other members to ensure APC victory in the election. The governor averred that the APC ideology is based on justice, peace, unity and equity, as he commended President Muhammadu Buhari for sustaining the efforts to restore lasting peace in the state and other parts of the country. While presenting APC flags to candidates of the party in the local government election, he urged them to seek diligent reconciliation among all the aggrieved members of the party. Bagudu reminded the standard bearers of the party that they were chosen on merit, but not because they were more powerful than other aspirants. He warned that: “Upon election, you should carry everybody along and strive to provide more dividends of democracy to the people of the state.” The governor also directed the contestants and other party members to embark on fence mending mission towards reinstalling unity among APC supporters in the state. “I have forgiven those who have been insulting me for whatever reasons,” he said. Also speaking, the Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, while acknowledging the crowd at the campaign venue, said the large turnout of supporters has shown that APC under Governor Bagudu in state is still intact, united and strong. He said that the party is blessed, and he is proud to have a leader with dexterity like Bagudu, calling on the people to positively reciprocate the gesture by coming out enmass to vote for APC candidates in the polls.