John Shiklam in Kaduna Apparently referring to former Senator Shehu Sani, the leadership of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kaduna State, has said the governorship of the state was “not for idle bloggers, who thought that decades of scavenging off the woes of people qualified them for leadership”. The party had reacted to the declaration by Sani who, while declaring his interest to run for the governorship of the state in 2023, said he would bring changes, that would clean all the dirts the APC had brought in the state in the name of development. Sani, a former senator, who represented Kaduna Central between 2015 and 2019, had said in an interview with a local radio station on Sunday in Kaduna, that he would contest for the election on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and “clean all the dirt they brought in the state in the name of development”, if elected. But the APC, in a statement yesterday, by its Publicity Secretary, Salisu Wusono, said it has provided good governance in Kaduna since 2015, and maintaining that the people “will not allow nonentities to ruin it for them.” The statement said, with the 2023 general election approaching, “all sorts of characters are trying to disrespect the people of Kaduna State by treating the contest for the next governorship of the state as if it is a grand comedy.” Wusono, who said the APC “knows that the people of Kaduna State have seen consistent good governance since 2015 and they will not allow nonentities to ruin it for them,” added that the APC had changed the democratic game in Kaduna, “making politics and governance an arena for the serious and the accomplished.” He said, “2023 will further confirm that Kaduna State is not an arena for those who have never run anything, who do not have any understanding of development or any appreciation of governance as a serious undertaking.” The statement said the APC was proud that the government of Malam Nasir El-Rufai, has amply justified the confidence that the people had twice reposed in him and the party at the ballot box. “The government of Malam Nasir El-Rufai has faithfully implemented the APC manifesto. And in so doing has changed Kaduna State for the better, in a way that has never been done before,” the statement said, adding that, “governance is a serious activity, meant for those with a track record of serious endeavours, vision, values and clear policies. “It is not for idle bloggers that think that decades of scavenging off the woes of people qualify them for leadership. Neither is it for persons whose record as civil servants contains no hint that they are capable of serious responsibility. “It is not for persons, who for two years remained clueless, when fate handed them power, concentrating instead on their own vain looks and grand titles. This cast of characters is clear evidence that the PDP is clearly wedded to the sorry past, but the people of Kaduna State have moved on. “The PDP is often quick to introduce politics but just like in 2015 and 2019, the people of Kaduna State will reject a party that for 16 years was unable to do much to either inspire progress and development or deliver good governance. “Our people have seen beyond those, who think that their own bread is buttered by promoting dependence rather than a serious effort to address poverty, empower people and expand equal opportunity,” he stated.