The University of Lagos Law Alumni Relations Committee and Faculty of Law have announced that some judges and senior advocates will lecture law undergraduates of the institution during its maiden reunion next month.
The Chairman of the committee, Distinguished Prof. Taiwo Osipitan, SAN disclosed this while briefing journalists to announce activities lined up for the reunion, tagged ‘The Great Homecoming,’ in Lagos.
He said the reunion will be a five-day event which will kick off at 9am of February 7 with a formal opening ceremony at the Faculty of Law.
“Thereafter, invited alumni among whom are judges, Senior Advocates of Nigeria (SAN), private legal practitioners and those in the corporate business world will serve as guest lecturers on that day and two subsequent days, February 7 to 9.
“They will be taking their turns to lecture undergraduates of the law faculty in courses which are on the faculty’s time table.
”Justice Helen Ogunwunmiju (JSC), Justice Oluwatoyin Ipaye of the High Court of Lagos and Justice Oyejoju Oyewunmi of the National Industrial Court are among our guest lecturers,” the chairman said.
He noted that the maiden homecoming sought to bring most living alumni of the faculty back to their alma mater and the university community, in order to relieve their days as students.
Osipitan added that the homecoming was also to provide a platform to bond among past and present students, as well as give back.
According to him, the UNILAG Faculty of Law is one of the first of the institution, at the time of its establishment in 1962, adding that former students of the faculty have remained good ambassadors of the faculty and the university.
He said the association would also use the occasion to mark the university’s Diamond Jubilee.
The chairman stated that other events marking the occasion would be a colloquium, scheduled for February 10.
He added that Senator Bashir Ajibola and Mr. Ade Ipaye, Deputy Chief of Staff to President Muhammadu Buhari among others, would speak on the topic; ‘Stare Decisis and the Future of Legal Practice’. Prof. Fidelis Odita, SAN, also a member of the association, would be the keynote speaker.
Also expected at the ceremony are the Vice-President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo; Speaker, House of Representatives, Mr. Femi Gbajabiamila, among others.
He stated that the high point of the event would be a dinner with Chief Wole Olanipekun, SAN and Justice Kudirat Olatokunbo Kekere-Ekun of the Supreme Court in attendance.
The Deputy Chairperson of the association, Mrs. Funke Agbor, SAN, described it as the beginning of good things to come to their alma mater.
She promised to improve the teaching and learning environment of the faculty, noting that the association is planning to donate a befitting structure that would serve purposes for both the students and members of staff.