Segun Awofadeji in Bauch Bauchi State Governor, Senator Bala Mohammed, yesterday cautioned his supporters against destroying posters and banners of opposition candidates ahead of the 2023 general election. He gave the directive at a stakeholders meeting held at old Banquet Hall, Government House, Bauchi, saying his administration would not encourage PDP supporters to engage in such an ac Rather than destroying their banners and posters, Mohammed said he would encourage members of the opposition parties to join the ruling PDP, citing its landmark legacies of achievements. He said: “I want to use this stakeholders meeting to advise my supporters not to engage in destroying the posters and banners of other candidates, especially those from the opposition parties. “I am happy with the unity that is existing among the leaders and members of our PDP party in Bauchi state and I am happy to say that, with your support, we have made giant strides in the sectors of infrastructure, agriculture, health, education, women and youth empowerment among others.” He told the party stakeholders that one of the legacies of his administration “is conducting local government elections.” He, therefore, appreciated the performance of the local government chairmen in the area of empowering people at the grassroots. In the area of empowerment in particular, the governor said his administration through its KEEP programme had empowered youth and women in 10 out of the 20 local government areas of the state. Mohammed called on party members not to use their political ambition to cause rancour in the party. Rather, according to him, they should work for the success of the party in the 2023 elections. He said: “I want to inform all the aspirants of various elected offices that I have no preferred candidate. I will support the party to ensure justice in the process of the primary election.” The governor reaffirmed the commitment of his administration to see that all parts of the state are connected with electricity and water supply to improve their living conditions. On his part, the Bauchi State PDP Chairman, Hamza Akuyam said the stakeholders meeting “is to discuss and review its plan and activities ahead of the forthcoming general elections.” Akuyam, who described the outcome of the meeting as fruitful, assured all the stakeholders that a level playing ground for all party members to contest for various political offices.