Bennett Oghifo The next-generation Mercedes-Benz C-Class Sedan is poised to set new benchmarks in the segment when it arrives in U.S. dealerships in the spring. Starting from $43,550, the C-Class Sedan offers a wide range of high-tech features and luxurious refinements derived from the flagship S- Class. The progressive new interior is also perfectly complimented by the sporty exterior design and powerful and efficient electrified 4-cylinder engine. The Mercedes-Benz C-Class Sedan will be offered in three highly-equipped and strategically curated trims for the U.S. market: Premium, Exclusive and Pinnacle. In addition to the generous standard features, each trim level builds upon the previous, creating three compelling offerings with additional optional features, including five new paints and all new upholstery options. This will allow customers the opportunity to seamlessly customize the C-Class Sedan to a wide variety of preferences and individual requirements. The progressive interior of the C-Class demonstrates a clear focus on technology with a freestanding 12.3” digital instrument panel and new large, portrait orientation 11.9” central touchscreen multimedia display. As an exclusive new C-Class feature, the 11.9” central display is also slightly tilted towards the driver by six degrees for the first time, further underscoring the driver-centered design and performance of the C-Class Sedan. Additional developments includes the latest generation of MBUX (Mercedes-Benz User Experience), bringing the C-Class technology on par with the flagship S-Class, providing a sophisticated, learning-capable infotainment system with advanced Voice Control, and individual profiles that can be activated by biometric authentication via the fingerprint sensor. Enhancements go well beyond the interior as the all-new C-Class debuts a new turbocharged 4-cylinder engine with an integrated starter generator and 48-volt mild hybrid technology—-the first four-cylinder gasoline engine in the Mercedes-Benz lineup offering this sophisticated technology. The systematically electrified 2.0-liter 4-cylinder engine in the C 300 and C 300 4MATIC Sedan boasts effortless and efficient power and improved comfort and performance. With an output of 255 hp and 295 lb-ft of torque, the C 300 models benefit from an increase of 22 lb-ft of torque compared to the predecessor. The 48V mild hybrid system provides a further 148 lb-ft of torque as well as up to an additional 20 hp for short periods for smooth acceleration and power delivery. The next generation C-Class is poised to redefine the benchmark and take comfort, safety and the overall driver and passenger experience to a completely new level. The 2022 Mercedes-Benz C-Class Sedan will arrive at U.S. dealerships in the spring of 2022.