James Sowole in Abeokuta The Ogun State Police Command have begun investigation into the killing of a traditional ruler, the Alagodo of Agodo in Ewekoro Local Governnent area of the state, Oba Ayinde Odetola, and three other persons. The assailants, who perpetrated the dastadly act on Monday,, were said to have also burnt the remains of the monarch and other victims said to be his friends. The Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) for the State Command, Mr Abimbola Oyeyemi, who said the command had swung into action, said the Commissioner of Police, Mr Lanre Bankole and the Special Adviser to the Governor on Security, Olusola Subair, had visited the town. Oyeyemi said the commissioner had directed the Homicide Section of the command to conduct thorough investigation into the incident, in order to bring perpetrators to book. It was gathered that residents of the town, had deserted the community, out of fear. It was gathered that there had been crisis on chieftaincy title of Alagodo over who occupies the seat between Ake and Owu people of Egbaland. The late monarch was said to be from the Ake section of Egba while there had been crisis that an Ake person cannot administer the town mainly dominated by Owu people. It was learnt that a brother to the late monarch was gruesomely murdered not too long ago. The monarch, was reportedly killed alongside his friends when they got to the town from an outing, according to a source. One of the siblings of the late traditional ruler who identified herself as Chief (Mrs) Adenike Akintade, confirmed the death of her brother. She said, “I had just been discharged from hospital early this morning, only to start mourning the brutal assassination of my brother by 11am. “Kabiesi called me on Saturday, urging me to reduce my activities, saying stress could contribute to my illness. “Oba Odetola lost his younger brother to the imbroglio some months ago; the young man was butchered by the so-called hoodlums, today, Kabiesi is no more, what a world.”