Blessing Ibunge in Port Harcourt The Ijaw Youths Council (IYC) Worldwide has warned blackmailers to steer clear of the Executive Secretary of the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB), Mr. Simbi Wabote. The group said the purported blackmailers claimed to be members of the civil society organisations. In a statement issued yesterday by the President IYC, Peter Igbifa, it described attempts by such persons to tarnish the image of Wabote using a subjudice matter in the United States as laughable, deceptive and childish. Igbifa explained that no court in the US had found Wabote guilty of any wrongdoing, calling for those behind reports accusing Wabote of perjury to be arrested and tried for causing public nuisance and civil unrest. Describing Wabote as a frontline Niger Delta son and an upright public servant, Igbifa said those raising unnecessary dust had no locus to make a defamatory suit filed by Wabote himself a matter of public discussion. Igbifa said IYC had compiled the names of persons behind attempts to pull down Wabote, whom he described as one of the rising Ijaw stars, and warned them to tread cautiously or risked burning their fingers. He said Wabote had repositioned and reformed the NCDMB making it the only agency without political interference, and using it to champion development across the states in the country. Igbifa said: “Wabote has made us proud as an Ijaw man. His professionalism in the management of the affairs of NCDMB is outstanding and his achievements as the executive secretary of the Board are extraordinary. Therefore, IYC, under my leadership, cannot allow any campaign of calumny designed by envious losers to embarrass him. “NCDMB under Wabote is the only agency in the heart of Niger Delta that has operated without any political interference. Under Wabote’s NCDMB, youths across the country are trained, employed and empowered in various fields of endeavour. We won’t allow anybody to destroy the character of this performer.”