Victor Ogunje in Ado Ekiti Former Governor of Ekiti State and a Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship aspirant in the 2022 election, Segun Oni, has predicated his interest in the plum seat on his avowed vision to rebuild the state economy to what it used to be during his first term. Oni, who regretted that the citizens had encountered so many difficulties in 2021 due to global economic recession, assured the people that he was well prepared to make personal sacrifices the way he did in his first term, to reposition Ekiti State with its lean resources as well as make a huge success out if it. The former governor said this yesterday in his congratulatory message to Ekiti people on the new year celebration. Oni posited that his return to the Government House was not with invidious mission to arrogate state resources to himself and political cronies, but to rebuild all that have been destroyed as well as to serve the people positively. Oni said: “My dear inestimable people of Ekiti State, I wish you a happy and healthy New Year full of fulfilled aspirations, dreams and renewals. “This is always a hopeful time, as we celebrate the beginning of 2022. I urge you to fear not; trust in God and believe that help is on the way to rebuild and rediscover the Ekiti Dream. “While 2021 was difficult for many of us, we must look forward in the New Year with the knowledge that brighter days are ahead of us. “I am confident we will come back, and we are going to come back even better and stronger than before. “Your clarion call to me to return in the service of the state has met my preparedness to serve you again and better. But we must work together to get things done. I do not doubt that we will do better when we work together.” Oni assured the people that his return to the saddle of governance would usher in robust security architecture, improved human capital and infrastructure development, civil service restructuring, education and technology fortification, employment generation and good and affordable healthcare services, among others. “We will partner you to rediscover the Ekiti Dream, where we shall collectively build a prosperous land, seek the forgotten and leave no one behind,” he stated.