Seriki Adinoyi in Jos Senior Staff Association of Nigerian Universities (SSANU), Plateau State University (PLASU) chapter has vowed to continue their strike action indefinitely following the refusal of the state government to pay minimum wage and earned allowances owed its members. Chairman of the association, Timnan Rimdap, in a statement explained that since the association embarked on a total and indefinite strike to demand payment of arrears of over N300 million earned allowances and ,minimum wage owed members, government has not engaged it in a dialogue with a view to resolving the issues. He expressed disappointment over the position of the state government in which it decided to ignore the association, adding that it was unbecoming of a supposedly worker friendly government. Secretary of SSANU, Mr. Fom Dakwak said: “Members of the public will recall that the Plateau State University Branch of the Senior Staff Association of Nigerian Universities (SSANU) had, on Tuesday 21st December 2021, embarked on a total and indefinite strike action to register its displeasure on a range of issues, one of which is the failure of the Governor Lalong’s administration to pay arrears of earned allowances and minimum wage owed its members. “Having painstakingly followed all due processes and secured all the necessary approvals for the payment of its own share of the earned allowances, SSANU made numerous demands on the Lalong’s administration to release its own share which amounted to a total sum of over N310 million for the period 2010 to 2020, but nothing came out. “It is disheartening to note, that from 2019 to date, the Lalong’s administration which prides itself as a labour friendly government has not released a single kobo for the payment of the arrears of earned allowances to PLASU senior staff. “It is also disheartening to note that since we declared an industrial action on 21st December, 2021, the Lalong’s administration has not only failed to address our issues but has also failed to engage the union in dialogue with a view to resolving them.” The Association called on well-meaning citizens of Plateau State and members of the Northern Governors Forum to prevail on the Governor to redeem his good name and set a good example by paying their hard-earned arrears of earned allowances. “We wish to state clearly state that as long as our legitimate and hard-earned allowances are not paid, our indefinite strike action which commenced on 21st December, 2021 will not be suspended”, SSANU affirmed.