Uchechukwu Nnaike The National Universities Commission (NUC) has approved Uma Ukpai School of Theology (UUST), Uyo, Akwa Ibom, affiliated to the University of Uyo, to run a degree in Religious Studies. The approval was conveyed to the Vice-Chancellor of UNIUYO via a letter dated October 27, 2021, and signed by the Director of Academic Planning, NUC, Dr. N.B. Saliu. “I am directed to inform the VC that the executive secretary has considered and approved the establishment of the underlisted programme, to be run in the main campus of the institution with effective from 2020/2021 academic session,” stated the letter. The approval followed a successful resource verification assessment visit to the school by a panel that assessed the proposed course and facilities. It was cheering news for the school, which has concluded plans to admit students and commence the programmes this academic session. The Registrar of UUST, Mrs. Eunice Madu, said the institution’s vision was to produce leaders passionate about God’s glory, the development of just and inclusive societies. Madu explained that the school was founded by the renowned evangelist, Rev. Dr. Uma Ukpai, in 2009 and has produced men and women who have become relevant in the society by doing exploits for God.
In 2009, the school matriculated 36 students, and in 2011, it graduated its first set of 36 students, with its maiden convocation held on June 11, 2011. On June 1, 2017, the school started the process of affiliation with the University of Uyo, and on July 31, 2019, during the 115th meeting of the Senate, the approval was granted. “This major milestone was communicated to UUST in a letter dated August 26, 2019. Consequently, on October 18, 2019, the school successfully signed the Memorandum of Understanding with UNIUYO on the affiliation, thereby paving the way for a three-man team from NUC together with an affiliation team from the university to visit the school for resource verification exercise on September 8, 2021,” added Madu. She said the school has a conducive environment, spacious and well equipped classrooms for teaching and learning. “There is also a well equipped functional computer school, white board and projectors for easy learning. The library section has over 5,000 books, reference section and e-library houses over two million e-books in every field of life.”
Madu thanked the proprietor for his financial support and for giving the staff and students the platform to serve.