Uchechukwu Nnaike As part of its promise to reward the school that produces the Maltina Teacher of the Year Competition winner, Nigerian Breweries Plc recently inaugurated a newly built 200-seater auditorium at the Concordia College, Yola, Adamawa. It was built in honour of one of their teachers, who won the 2020 Maltina Teacher of the Year, Miss Oluwabunmi Anani. The handover ceremony of the building was attended by a host of dignitaries and stakeholders from the Adamawa State government, management staff of Nigerian Breweries Plc, among others. During the ceremony, the Secretary to the Adamawa State Government, Umar Bindi, represented by the Commissioner for Education and Human Capital Development, Wilbina Jackson, thanked the company for investing in the education sector as part of its corporate social responsibility. Bindi also applauded Anani for the achievement, noting that the sterling performance recorded could not have been possible without the conducive learning environment created by the state government and Concordia College. “Above all, this giant stride would not have been possible without the efforts of Governor Ahmadu Finitri, for providing security and a conducive learning environment in the state,” he said. The Chairman, Nigerian Breweries Plc, Chief Kola Jamodu, represented by the Head of Public and External Relations, Uzodinma Odenigbo, congratulated Anani. He said her commitment is a constant reminder that no society can exist without the solid foundation provided by a teacher. He described the achievements of Anani and her colleagues as a massive testament to the quality and excellence in teaching obtainable and available in Concordia College. “I congratulate the people of Adamawa State, the governor and his team, and the management and staff of Concordia College for participating and winning the 2020 Maltina Teacher of the Year Awards. We are proud of you and your achievements,” he added.
While expressing hope that the facility would be of immense benefit to the people of the state, he said the company remains committed to contributing its quota to the country’s education sector. Since its inception in 2009, the Nigerian Breweries/Felix Ohiwerei Education Trust Fund has successfully delivered several intervention projects in education. They include constructing and furnishing over 140 classrooms, libraries, and toilets in various Kano, Sokoto, Plateau, and Kaduna States schools.