The Federal Commissioner, National Commission for Refugees, Migrants and Internally Displaced Persons (NCFRMI), Hon. Imaan Sulaiman-Ibrahim, yesterday disclosed in Abuja that the country’s migration policy is at the verge of being reviewed.
Underscoring the importance of the review, she stated that migrants are a remarkable engine for growth as they account for more than 250 million around the world, which makes up three per cent of global population and contribute 10 per cent of global gross domestic product.
According to her, Nigeria remains a country of origin, a country of transit and a country of destination, hence, the country is not against migration but posited that Nigeria is in dire need of a migration policy that works for everybody, adding that the team from her agency and that of the foreign affairs would be in South Africa, to meet with other global stakeholders aimed at discussing how to strengthen labour migration policies.
She said that the last review was done in 2015 and NCFRMI, being the lead agency for migration for government, “ we are the custodians of the migration policy. It is about to undergo a review.”
The first joint Migration Dialogue with the Civil Society Day was conducted in collaboration with the CSONetMADE and IOM. This is in recognition of the role being played by the civil society organisation as key stakeholders in migration management.
The federal commissioner recognised and appreciated stakeholders that are managing migration in Nigeria, saying: “We have a lot of partners too, international partners like the Swiss government through the SDC, IOM, especially repatriations and readmission, reintegration, rehabilitation and then resettlement, and also the European Union (EU), and they support us in managing migration challenges and in the effective implementation of our migration policy. As a country, one of our key challenges is Irregular migration. So we are not against migration as a country, we just want to have a migration policy that works for everybody.”
During the commemoration of the International Day for Migrants recently, the commissioner said her commission successfully supported in the repatriation and reintegration of stranded Nigerian nationals from Libya and other countries throughout the years.
“We are stepping up our efforts to provide long-term solutions to those in need. Nigeria provides a welcoming environment for refugees, as we now host about 73,000 refugees of different countries. We are dedicated to facilitating the safe repatriation of Nigerian refugees who voluntarily desire to be repatriated and are presently seeking asylum in Cameroon, Chad, and Niger.
She solicited for a collective support in the ability to gather and analyse reliable data on migration; ensure evidenced-based and coordinated response; develop targeted communication tools; strengthen governance of migration for safe, orderly and regular migration; enhance the provision of accurate and timely information at all stages of migration and improve the migration coordination mechanism at the national, state and local government levels.