Sylvester Idowu An Australian trained Obstetrician and Gynaecologist, Dr. Uche Menakaya has advised women with ovarian cancer complication to consult trained specialist early enough. Menakaya gave the advice while speaking with newsmen on the sideline of the continuation of the 3-day ‘Coastal/Junic Gynaecologic Ultrasound Taining Programme’ holding in Warri, Delta. The Australian-based Nigerian gynaecologist who is one of the key facilitators of the training said the life span of an ovarian cancer patient could increased by about 70 or 80 per cent when it was diagnosed early. He added that early detection would have a better clinical outcome and urged women with the symptoms to quickly go for an ultrasound. “Women should have access to properly trained specialist that can make early diagnosis. “Early diagnosis increase the life span of ovarian cancer. The woman that identify cancer early has 70 to 80 per cent chances of survival and those with late cancer identification has 30 per cent chances of survival. “Early detection will have better outcome clinically and better chances of survival. If you have any symptom, go quickly for ultrasound where the specialist is properly trained. “Women should begin to understand that these services are available and certain diseases are easier to treat when detected early without affecting the quality of their lives “The problem is that when those diseases advanced, it becomes very difficult,” he said. Menakaya said that there was need for an improved advocacy on why women should always go for ultrasound. He urged government at all levels to invest in ultrasound services by way of providing equipment to address the needs of the people. “There should be regulatory framework to guide the use of ultrasound in Nigeria. “For instance, in the developed countries, any ultrasound made, the image will not be released until eight years after to protect the right of the woman but in Nigeria, it is not so,” he said The gynaecologist urged government to provide training opportunities where ultrasound would be introduced in a structured way to improve on the skills of the medical doctors. Speaking on the training, the medical expert urged the participants to always ask for the clinical history of their patients. According to him such clinical history may include: their age, menstrual circle and number of children while conducting the ultrasound adding that it would enable them to know more about the patient. Several instructors in the medical field including Dr Kingsley Agholor, Prof. Bukar Mohammed, Dr Janet Akinmoladun among others took the participants through the intensive theoritical and practically inclined training programme. The programme was attended by 35 participants from across the length and bredght of the country. One of the participants, Dr Ifegbu Ifegbu commended the organisers saying, “the training have been so wonderful, the organisers have done so much to hold this great lectures and I am indeed happy with them”.