Social media is a truly universal medium. It is no longer simply for staying in touch but has evolved into a business, marketing, and even therapeutic tool. Dr. Kim Chronister has found a large audience and great success through her online advices, proving that platforms such as Facebook and TikTok create a lot more impact than what even these titans realize. There are very few clinical psychologists taking social media by storm, and Dr. Chronister is one of the most prominent faces in this small group. Why social media? Because Dr. Kim Chronister believes in the power of authenticity. In fact, she has been named the second most important TikTok account people should be following, a high honor due to the traffic and reach of this platform. The aspect that sets Dr. Kim Chronister apart is her honesty and authenticity. She strives to add value to people’s lives by addressing issues such as mood swings, anxiety, substance abuse, and relationship issues such as breakups. If people can utilize social media for tutorials and entertainment, why not follow a channel that deals with today’s most important mental health and well-being issues? This is not pop psychology but professional advice from an experienced medical authority. If social media can be utilized to share pet photos and dance moves, why can’t it be used to deliver life-changing advice? Dr. Chronister’s popularity clearly demonstrates that social media can boost any career, regardless of the industry. It is certainly a two-way relationship as Dr. Chronister is able to offer a life-changing service at no cost while scaling her private practice at the same time. As human beings, we crave advice and guidance but might not be able to afford such necessities. Mental health is an essential service, and it should not be a luxury reserved for the wealthy. Dr. Kim Chronister fully understand this, which is why she offers her advice to a wide spectrum of audience via social media. From there, it comes down to the free will of the individual whether to watch the latest viral dance video or take control of their destiny.