Deji Elumoye in Abuja Governor Sani Bello of Niger State, yesterday, painted a more concerning situation in his state, when he claimed terrorists had attacked some communities in the state about 50 timeswithin the first two weeks of January 2022, leaving some 300 people dead. He also said during the same period, about 200 people, including security personnel, were kidnapped. “In January this year alone, we suffered not less than 50 reported attacks and loss of lives, between 1st and 17th January. Within the same period, not less than 300 communities have been invaded by bandits. “The number of people kidnapped is 200, including three Chinese nationals. We also lost some security personnel. Their number is 25. Unfortunately, we lost about 165 civilians and 30 local vigilantes. “So, it’s a very dire situation that we have been battling in the last few weeks since the beginning of this year,” he said. Speaking with newsmen after briefing President Muhammadu Buhari on the security situation in thew state, the governor said the state was facing serious security problem. Bello gave a breakdown of the attacks and their consequences on lives in the state while blaming the low response time to the attacks on the lack of access roads to the communities. He, however, expressed optimism that with the new measures being put in place, the security situation in the state would improve soon, stressing the need for the contiguous states to work together to stop the terrorists from moving from one place to another. His words: “I came to visit Mr. President to give him an update on the security situation in Niger State with regards to banditry activities, kidnapping, and cattle rustling among others. “We had a very fruitful discussion. We were able to review some of the invasions in the state. Unfortunately, I cannot tell you all. In the last few days, there have seen a lot of activities in Niger State. Hopefully, in the next few weeks, we’ll see some relief with regards to banditry. “I also gave a highlight on some of the challenges. Of course, our size is a disadvantage, almost nine million hectares. We lost some forests. But I’m very optimistic with the kind of zeal I have seen from our security agencies and all services. I’m very optimistic that the situation will be addressed. And, hopefully, we should get a very peaceful state within the shortest possible time. “But there is still a lot of work to do. We share borders with Kaduna, Zamfara, and Kebbi States. And these bandits have the habit of hibernating between forests, moving from Zamfara to Kebbi, and Kebbi to Niger. “They take advantage of the cattle routes, which they already know. They move on motorcycles. And most of the areas and communities they attack have no access roads. So, you cannot drive there. So, our response time is slow. But, going forward, there will be new strategies, which I earlier mentioned. It will help us. But I can’t disclose some of those strategies. But basically, the states of Kaduna, Niger, Kebbi, would have to work together to address the situation. “What I realise is that they have been taking us on a merry-go-round. When we deal with them in Niger, they move to Kaduna. When Kaduna deals with them, they move to Katsina. They have been hibernating in the forest. Some of these operations need to be handled simultaneously so that we get the result. “We are not happy and we are sad with the developments in these states. We are doing whatever we can, using kinetic and non-kinetic efforts to see that we address the present situation. As we go on, we will try to update you from time to time on progress being made in this fight.”