Hammed Shittu Another religious crisis seems to be looming in Kwara State over the use of Hijab dress code in secondary schools in the state. Meanwhile, the state Teaching Service Commission (TESCOM) has warned school principals in the state against imposing the use of hijab or beret on any students in the state. THISDAY checks revealed that the principals of some schools in Offa and Oyun Local Government Areas in the state at the weekend sent Muslim students who used the Hijab in school to go back home. The affected schools, according to THISDAY checks, are owned by the state government, but made to bear the names of the original founders having been taken over since 1976 but reportedly denied Muslim girls wearing hijab entry into their respective Schools. The Schools affected according to report are St. Clares Girls High School, Offa and Oyun Baptist High School Ijagbo among others. The Ilorin High Court and Court of Appeal Ilorin had ruled in 2016 and 2019 respectively that state government is the owner of all schools handed-over to Muslim and Christian Missionaties since 1976. It was learnt that, the crisis might have resulted into another religious crisis but quickly intervened by the government by convening a peace meeting with stakeholders on the issue. However, in a statement issued.in Ilorin after the stakeholders meeting, the state chairman, Teaching Service Commission (TESCOM), Alhaji Bello Abubakar, reaffirmed the government determination on religious tolerance among teachers and students so as to enhance peaceful coexistence among the people of the state. He said the meeting was convened with the aim of resolving the crisis over Hijab which erupted of recent, at Oyun Baptist Grammar School, Ijagbo, Oyun LGA of the state. Abubakar reminded the gathering that: “Kwara is a state of harmony, therefore, everyone should remain peaceful and be good ambassadors for the coming generation.” The chairman, who warned that the present administration would not tolerate religious bigotry, therefore, enjoined all to shun religious sentiments and respect the rights of individuals. He, thereafter, warned the school principals in Oyun area to abide by the policy of the state government and desist from imposing Hijab or beret on any student, adding that instead, it should be made optional.