Laleye Dipo in Minna One of the contenders for the National Chairmanship of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) Senator Mohammed Sani Musa, has welcomed the dates for the national convention of the party, which was announced by the Extra Ordinary Convention Planning Committee. The Chairman of the National Caretaker/Extra Ordinary Convention Planning Committee and Governor of Yobe State, Mr. Mai Mala Buni, announced that February 26 of this year has been set aside for the all-important gathering at the first ever National Progressives Women’s Conference in Abuja on Tuesday. The Mohammed Sani Musa Advisory Council at a news conference that was addressed by its Chairman in Minna, Niger State, yesterday, welcomed the dates saying “Senator Sani Musa is ready for the contest anytime any day.” The Chairman of the Council, Mr. Babasule Bissala, who addressed the press, commended the committee for “doing its job diligently and painstakingly despite efforts made by some elements to distract its attention. “We are ready for the convention and we are sure of victory anytime and any day,” Bissala said, adding that the council’s optimism was born out of the fact that “our principal, Mr. Sani Musa, has wide acceptability among all the major stakeholders and majority of members of our party. “Our strength is drawn from the support we are enjoying from our state governors, states and federal legislators and even those outside our party because of the antecedent of Senator Musa, first as a businessman of repute, politician of impeccable character who has touched the lives of thousands of people within and outside his constituency and above all a very responsible youth. “There is no gain saying that as the chairman of the Senate Services Committee, Sani Musa has been discharging his responsibilities with equanimity and to the satisfaction of both the majority and opposition members of the Senate. “Sani Musa has the blue print that will further unite the party make it a more formidable force for the battle ahead. “Therefore, as we match to the convention days it is our prayer that all contestants will go about their campaigns with decorum devoid of character assassination, blackmail and mudslinging because at the end we will still come together for the major task of retaining political power at the federal level and the states of the country,” Bissala said.