Deji Elumoye in Abuja President Muhammadu Buhari has approved the appointment of a nine-man board for the Nigerian National Petroleum Company Limited, in accordance with the power vested in him under Section 59(2) of the Petroleum Industry Act (PIA) 2021. He also appointed four executive commissioners for the Nigerian Upstream Petroleum Regulatory Commission (NUPRC). According to a release issued on Wednesday by the Media Adviser to the President, Femi Adesina, the NNPC Limited Board Chairman is Senator Margret Chuba Okadigbo (South-east), Mele Kolo Kyari, Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Umar I. Ajiya, Chief Financial Officer (CFO). Other members of the Board are Dr Tajudeen Umar (North-east), Mrs Lami O. Ahmed (North-central), Mallam Mohammed Lawal (North-west), Mr. Henry Obih (South-east), Constance Harry Marshal (South-south), and Chief Pius Akinyelure (South-west). The appointments take effect from the date of the incorporation of the NNPC Limited. Also appointed are executive commissioners of the Nigerian Upstream Petroleum Regulatory Commission. They are Dr Nuhu Habib (Kano), Executive Commissioner, Development and Production; Dr Kelechi Onyekachi Ofoegbu (Imo), Executive Commissioner, Economic Regulations and Strategic Planning; Capt. Tonlagha Roland John (Delta), Executive Commissioner, Health, Safety, Environment and Community; and Jide Adeola (Kogi), Executive Commissioner, Corporate Services and Administration. The new appointees at the Nigerian Midstream and Downstream Petroleum Regulatory Authority are Francis Alabo Ogaree (Rivers), Executive Director, Hydrocarbon Processing; Mustapha Lamorde (Adamawa), Executive Director, Health, Safety, Environment and Community; Mansur Kuliya (Kano), Executive Director, Midstream and Downstream Gas Infrastructure Fund; Bashir Sadiq (Sokoto), Executive Director, Corporate Services and Administration; and Dr Zainab Gobir (Kwara), Executive Director, Economic Regulations and Strategic Planning. They join the Board Chairman, Executive Director, Downstream Systems, Storage and Retailing Infrastructure, the CEO and Executive Director, Finance and Accounts, who had earlier been appointed by President Buhari. For Midstream and Downstream Infrastructure Fund, the new council members are Mr Effiong Abia (Akwa Ibom), Bobboi Ahmed (Adamawa) and Mr. Abdullahi Bukar (Katsina). The president had, in September 2021, informed the Senate of the administrative structure amendments to the Petroleum Industry Act, which included the appointment of non-executive board members, removal of the Ministries of Petroleum and Finance from the board of the two new institutions and appointment of executive directors.