The Delta State Government has stated that its 2022 budget of N479 billion is aimed at completing all ongoing projects across the state. The state Commissioner for Information, Mr. Charles Aniagwu, who stated this on television programme yesterday, said the Governor Ifeanyi Okowa’s administration would take advantage of the 2022 budget, being the last full year budget, to complete major ongoing projects across the state. According to him, road construction, building of schools, hospitals, job creation among other things were top priority in the 2022 budget. He said: “In 2022, we shall focus more attention on road construction, building and expanding facilities in our schools and hospitals, and these expenditures would take a larger chunk of the capital of the budget while the recurrent will largely remain what it has been. “We will be completing a number of key roads, the dualisation of Asaba to Ughelli, interchange at Koka Junction in Asaba; Beneku bridge, Orerhe bridge as well as other community roads being constructed. “On schools, we are going to expand facilities particularly building of more classroom blocks, across the 25 local government areas of the state. “The same applies to a number of hospitals being constructed, and we also have three new universities that we established last year, and we are expanding the facilities in these universities.” On job creation, the Information Commissioner said the state government remained committed to the expansion of its job creation programmes to enable more Deltans benefit from the numerous schemes in the state. According to Aniagwu, “We are continuing with our job creation programmes because the governor has increased the number of intakes that we have annually, so in 2022, more Deltans would benefit from the state empowerment programmes. “A number of these issues would be tackled in 2022. 2022 is not an accident because we already know the year will come and that it’s going to be the last full year of our being in office. “A whole lot of plans went into the 2022 budget before it became law having passed through the legislation in the House of Assembly.” On COVID-19, Aniagwu said a total of 4,991 confirmed cases have been recorded in the state out of which the state lost 110 persons, while a total of over 4,800 persons have been successfully treated since the pandemic started in the state. “Luckily for us, we have not recorded any death to the new variants, and we pray it remains so. “In terms of vaccination, we are number six in the country and number one in the Niger Delta region, and our aspiration is to be number one in the country having vaccinated about 12.7 per cent of the total population expected to be vaccinated as a state. “What we are doing now to bring down the number of infected persons in the state is that we are continuing with the rapid diagnostic test across the 25 local government areas, a minimum of four centres in each of the local government areas,” the commissioner stated. He said the state government was also engaging private hospitals to collaborate with government hospitals in the treatment of COVID-19.