Fidelis David in Akure Men of the Ondo State Security Network Agency codenamed ‘Amotekun’ have arrested 17 men of Northern extraction with 34 dogs, guns, charms, cutlasses, swords, catapults. Amotekun also arrested two armed robbers after robbing 18 travelers of their belongings at Isu-Akoko while on transit to Abuja. The state Commander of the Amotekun Corps , Chief Adetunji Adeleye, who disclosed this while parading the suspects in Akure said the suspects were arrested in Okitipupa Local Government Areas of Ondo State. He said: “The residents raised the alarm that they suddenly found a number of people who claimed to come from the northern part of the country with guns, charms, cutlasses, swords, catapults. Upon interrogation, they said they were invited to Okitipupa by somebody and that they are actually working for the person, but all attempt to reach the person they claimed they work for proved abortive. “We have 34 dogs, among able body men who don’t even know where they are going to. They claimed they were dropped in Okitipupa by a vehicle and the vehicle had left which calls for very serious concern, looking at the security situation in the country. He said investigation into who brought them, their real mission is still ongoing but warned residents to be vigilant and call on security agencies once they see what he described as mysterious things. One of the robbery suspects, Jamiu Musa, who confessed to the crime said he was lured into the business by one of his six gang members, noting that they came into the state through Okene in Kogi state. Also, Agboola Kabiru, the driver of the bus with 18 passengers while narrating how they were robbed, said the incident occurred at the bad portion of Idoani- Isua road “We were coming from Lagos and heading to Abuja. They appeared to us with mask, three at the front, three at the back. They collected the vehicle from me, drove us into a bush and dispossed us of our possessions. I never believed that they could be arrested,” he said.