Chuks Okocha in Abuja A member of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Moses Ayom, has declared his intention to contest the 2023 presidential run, promising to reverse the World Bank record of $26.2 billion annual economic losses for Nigeria due to poor access to electricity, if elected. Ayom said the economic losses could be reversed through committed political leadership and that with good leadership, Nigeria’s economic challenges could be resolved also. “We have all the natural and human resources to guarantee good life for every Nigerian, lead Africa and play big in the top league of advanced world economies. “Nigeria requires a sound leader; one that is committed to stimulating inclusive economic growth, technological innovation, and entrepreneurship that creates jobs and increases the standard of living for every Nigerian. “A leader that is religiously committed to the promotion of justice, equity, and representation to give all entities in this country a practical stake and deep and heartfelt sense of inclusion as well as prioritising competence in public service, where governance is seen as a tool for the service of all, rather than an avenue for political patronage,” he said. As a first significant step towards reviving the economy, Ayom explained that his prospective Presidency “would implement initiatives that would help turn the Southeast region into the Gwanzhou manufacturing hub of Africa and support locally produced goods with tax incentives. “We will encourage the manufacture and use of Made-in-Nigeria goods. As president, I would drive Innoson vehicles and make it mandatory for government agencies to follow suit.” According to him, ensuring steady supply of electricity was fundamental to building a modern and prosperous Nigeria, which he noted, currently has the largest energy deficit in the world. Quoting statistics, Atom said, “According to the World Bank over 85 million Nigerians representing 43% of our population, don’t have access to grid electricity. The lack of reliable power is a significant constraint for both citizens and businesses. The World Bank estimate that we record annual economic losses estimated at $26.2 billion (N10.1 trillion) which is equivalent to about 2 percent of GDP.” He, however, said the ugly power situation in Nigeria required urgent reversal, noting that power should be the second priority to security, which he maintained needed to be made stronger, well-equipped, properly motivated and better trained to tackle the many external and internal security challenges.