Hammed Shittu in Ilorin Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq of Kwara says his administration has secured funding to complete the two campuses of the state university at Osi and Ilesha Baruba. The governor said completing the two campuses would open up the state, create new economic centres, and boost the search for knowledge. “Our administration has secured funding to complete the satellite campuses of KWASU at Osi and Ilesha Baruba,” said the governor at the combined eighth and ninth convocation ceremony of the Kwara State University, Malete, in Moro Local Government area. “This will not only grow the university in terms of the number of faculties and students, but it will also help to open up those two communities, tackle rural-urban migration, and create new fertile grounds for intellectual and socio-economic growth.”
AbdulRazaq commended the university for its commitment to research and community service, saying: “Two different events have recently told the success story that KWASU has become. The convocation ceremony also served to confer honourary awards on some prominent citizens, including the Chief of Staff to the President Prof. Ibrahim Agboola Gambari; billionaire philanthropist Muhammadu Indimi; Chairman BUA Group, Alhaji AbdulSamad Rabiu; and Mr. Babatunde Jolayemi Omotowa; in appreciation of their humanitarian works and outstanding contributions to national development. The governor acknowledged the exceptional feats of the awardees, which he said explained their recognition by the university.
Dr. Johnson Adewumi, KWASU Chancellor, said the university excelled at satisfying some of the indices of a world-class university through teaching, research and community service. KWASU Vice-Chancellor Prof. Muhammad Mustapha Akanbi said the school was fast-growing under his stewardship in academic growth, community development and staff welfare. According to the vice-chancellor, no less than 16 new programmes have been developed to expand the frontiers of knowledge and human ingenuity. “In the effort to further expand the university’s academic programmes, 16 new programmes have been developed by the university and are awaiting resource verification by the NUC. These proposed programmes have the combined capacity to generate the much-needed human resources in the diverse areas of their focus, which will, in turn, drive national growth,” he added. He added that the combined convocation produced 6,620 First Degree earners, 98 of whom bagged first class. According to the vice Chancellor, the convocation also recorded 400 second degree earners and 60 successful doctoral (PhD) thesis writers, cutting across 2019 to 2021 sessions.