Fidelis David A member representing Odigbo/Oke-Igbo/Ile-Oluji in the House of Representatives, Hon. Mayowa Akinfolarin, has described Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State investment in security as one of the most valuable achievements of his administration, declaring that the governor’s commitment to Amotekun Corps has gone a long way in reducing fears of residents of any external invasion. The lawmaker, who stated this during an interview said the governor’s commitment to protecting and sustaining the security architecture of the state is one which must be commended by all.
Akinfolarin said: “For a man considered the chief security officer of the state, also regarded as the Amotekun Generalissimo, the governor has truly lived up to the expectations of the people, particularly, in the area of security in the state and the South-west in general. “Upon his emergence as the governor of the sunshine state, he made a salient promise to the good people of the state that he would always ensure that he leaves no stone unturned in making sure that there’s a conducive atmosphere across the 18 local government areas of the
state, one which he believes will herald the various progressive plans he has for the state.
According to him, what Akeredolu has done in the area of security in the state is one which will definitely be talked about for many years to come. Akinfolarin, who explained that the governor is the kind of leader any state will love to have, added: “When there was rising cases of insecurity, the governor took the bull by the horn and he did the needful. Even when he was sternly opposed by some high ranking powers, he did not succumb instead he rose like a true leader that he is and gallantly fought the battle and the result is what we have here with us today and that is Amotekun Security Network.” ” There’s no place in Ondo state today that you will visit and would not find them, he has brought the security operatives closer to our people, making our people feel safe again, gone are those days when there were news of kidnapping, herdsmen attack, robbery in the state”
“Another landmark achievement of the Amotekun Corps is the ability to keep the state safe by enforcing the Anti-Grazing law signed by the Akeredolu-led administration. “All these goals were made possible and achievable with the total support, encouragement and enabling environment given to the Amotekun Corps by the visionary governor,” the lawmaker said.
While Commending the leadership of Akeredolu in bringing together the South-west governors to tackle insecurity and making the security of lives and properties a priority, Akinfolarin hailed Akeredolu’s courage, adding that he sees the Amotekun Security Network as a forerunner to the state police.