Blessing Ibunge in Port Harcourt The Presidential Amnesty Programme (PAP) has commenced training of 400 ex-agitators on special skills. The beneficiaries will commence training at the Bradama International Skills Work Limited in Agadagba-Obon, Ese-Odo Local Government Area of Ondo State. The Interim Administrator of PAP, Col. Milland Dikio (rtd) said the pioneer delegates are undergoing a special Train, Employ and Mentor (TEM) training programme. Dikio, who inaugurated the programme yesterday, said the deployment was in line with the promise he made to the ex-agitators in the New Year massage. Dikio in a statement urged the beneficiaries to see it as another privileged opportunity to create a future of economic prosperity for themselves. He explained that the TEM scheme was a well-thought out training model which would equip the beneficiaries with the necessary skills and provide a sustainable means of livelihood for them. Dikio, who challenged the delegates to avoid any conduct that would derail their participation in the seven-month training programme, restated his commitment of bringing sustained peace and economic prosperity to the region. He said the seven months training will cover four faculties of building, Electrical/Solar Inverter Installation, Mechanical and General Studies. Earlier in his remarks, PAP’s Head of Reintegration, Alfred Kemepado, said there were numerous employment opportunities for persons found worthy in character and learning after the training. Kemepado explained that while some of the beneficiaries would be employed at the Bradama International Skills Work Limited as part of the TEM agreement, others would have the opportunity to work in multinational companies. On his part, the Managing Director of Bradama International Skills Work Limited, Bibopere Ajube,urged the trainees to be inspired by his success story and strive to be better than him. Ajube said: “If you don’t work hard you can’t achieve anything. So, make up your mind today that you will make it. Look at me, I took a decision to succeed and look at where I am today. Always think of your children, what are you offering your children for their lives to be better”? Ajube, who commended Dikio for the idea of the TEM, warned the delegates to desist from forming cabals that would be inimical to their success during the training.