Adedayo Akinwale A former Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Prince Diran Odeyemi, has described the attempt to blackmail the Chairman of PDP, Dr. Iyorchia Ayu and the National Reconciliation and Strategy Committee (NRSC) led by former Senate President Dr. Bukola Saraki as mischievous. Odeyemi in a statement issued Tuesday said his response became imperative after his attention was drawn to a statement issued by one Abiodun Adegoke in which he made many ‘libelous, mischievous, and false claims’ over the reconciliation efforts in Osun state chapter of the party. He pointed out that the entire write up was a dubious attempt to mislead the public and blackmail Saraki as well as the new leadership of Ayu into taking premeditated decisions that will favour a group in the Osun State PDP crisis. The party chieftain said as a stakeholder in Osun State, it should be clear to all that this game of blackmail, intimidation, muck-raking, mud-splashing, and peddling of bare-faced lies cannot help the party. Odeyemi noted that as a major stakeholder in the party, he was obliged to respond to the write-up because the writer made several untrue statements concerning the party, some key leaders, and insinuated things that only exist in his imagination as well as that of his sponsors. He added that as a result of the reconciliation efforts in other states and the emergence of the new party leadership, the final report of the NRSC has not been submitted to the new National Working Committee (NWC) led by Ayu. Odeyemi said, therefore, the committee as a body, Saraki as a person, and other members could not be accused of playing any role in whatever decision the party leadership has taken, is contemplating, or may take on the forthcoming gubernatorial election in Osun State. He stated: “From my knowledge, the National Reconciliation and Strategy Committee (NRSC) met the Osun State stakeholders on March 15, 2021, in Abuja as it did to most of the other states where the party had a crisis. “From the commencement of the meeting, Dr. Saraki declared his closeness to the Adeleke family, particularly revealing that two of the members of the family (late Isiaka and Ademola) had been his colleagues in the Senate. He however made it clear that the fact will not prevent him from saying the truth and ensuring justice, equity, and fairness determined the outcome of the deliberations. “After his statement, nobody raised any objection to his presiding over the meeting. Many of the stakeholders across the board praised and commended his objectivity and full disclosure.” The party chieftain stressed that the 2022 gubernatorial election in this state is for PDP to win, but added that, “It is also easy for PDP to lose it due to unreasonable actions of its leaders and members like the one under consideration.” Odeyemi added: “None of the various groups can win this election alone. We have all been in the opposition in the last 12 years. With some sensible actions, unity of purpose, a ‘give and take’ but positive attitude, and strategic planning, we can win the elections and go-ahead to provide good governance for our people. “However, if we choose the path of self-destructing like the one represented in the press statement by the so-called Apesin-Abiodun Adegoke, we will all continue to enjoy the benefit of in-fighting under the opposition umbrella.”