Victor Ogunje in Ado Ekiti Senator representing Ekiti North Senatorial district at the National Assembly, Olubunmi Adetumbi, has declared that he had deployed his network and worked hard to attract N2 .4 billion worth of projects to add values to the zone in the last two years. The ranking Senator and Chairman, Senate Committee on National Planning, disclosed that the feat was achieved through personal sacrifices to uplift his people and by intense networking with relevant federal government’s agencies to bring dividends of democracy to his constituents. The All Progressives Congress Senator gave the disclosure in Ifaki Ekiti, Ido/Osi Local Government area of Ekiti State, yesterday, while giving accounts of his stewardship and efforts being made to drive human and infrastructure development in the zone. Adetumbi, who praised Governor Kayode Fayemi, traditional rulers and constituents for their supports, catalogued the projects dotted across towns, villages and 56 wards in Ekiti North to include 20 solar-powered boreholes, seven road projects, 3,6 and 12-block of classrooms in six selected schools. Others, according to the Senator were five erosion/ecological projects, building of two lock-up shops and Three ICT training centres across four local governments of Ikole, Ilejemeje, Oye and Ido/Osi councils, while projects in Moba Local Government were in the pipeline and would commence soon. Adetumbi, who was represented by his campaign Director of Operations, Chief Segun Adelugba, added that he had expended N10 million on scholarship awards to 200 students, to acquire higher degrees in the district, while about 300 artisans have been exposed to modern training to sharpen their expertises. “450 beneficiaries of the first phase of NDE Special Public Works got N60,000 each, making a sum of N27m. Also, another round of 650 beneficiaries of NDE Special Public Works collect N60,000 per beneficiary, which gulped a sum of N39m. All these I facilitated for my constituents. “The second phase of Covid-19 loan benefited 50 persons and through this, over N20m had been injected into our local economy, apart from training for thousands of women leaders, groups, chiefs and unempoloyed graduates, among other innovations I have brought to uplift my constituents.” Adetumbi, however, hinted that he had also injected some projects in the federal government’s budgetary provisions for 2022 for project execution in Moba local government and part of Ido/Osi council area. The Senator, who clarified that those projects were funded through personal funding, assured his constituents that he would accord employment generations for jobless graduates and youth empowerment as his main focus in the 2022 fiscal year.