Emmanuel Addeh The federal government, represented by the Minister of Power, Abubakar Aliyu, has held a follow-up meeting with Egyptian authorities in an effort to boost electricity supply, including renewable energy in Nigeria. During the talks with the Egyptian Ambassador to Nigeria, Ihad Awad , which held in Abuja, Aliyu affirmed the commitment of the federal government to see that Nigerians have efficient power supply in the nearest future. He informed the meeting that the government of Nigeria signed a power project deal with Siemens AG, a Germany-based firm in 2019, which he said has brought together Nigeria’s ministry of power, Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE), Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC), the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) and the Electricity Distribution Companies (Discos) in search of solutions to the country’s power challenges. “The deal is to deliver up to 25,000 megawatts (MW) of electricity to the national grid in phases and the federal government desires more of such partners,” he explained. Aliyu stated that the anticipated area of cooperation between Egypt’s ministry of electricity and renewable energy and Nigeria’s federal ministry of power may include the areas of provision of technical support in transmission and distribution networks, promotion as well as in the renewable energy system in the electricity sector. Responding, the Egyptian Ambassador, Awad, said the country and Nigeria will complement each other and highlighted the government’s efforts to see improvement in the energy sector. Describing electricity as the engine of development, he stated that both countries are working to ensure the realisation of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) on the areas of collaboration.
Meanwhile, in an effort to improve electricity supply to rural and urban settlements in Nigeria, Aliyu has affirmed the commitment of the government to provide reliable power to unserved and underserved communities. Aliyu, who was represented by the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Power, Nebeolisa Anako, at the signing of an MoU between the Sokoto and Bauchi state governments, assured that government will assist to make sure that the programme comes to reality.
He further reiterated that the government plans to install 5 million Solar Home System (SHS) and mini-grid by which would generate 250,000 and impact over 25 million beneficiaries across the states in Nigeria. Responding, the Commissioner of Energy, Sokoto state, Aliyu Balarabe expressed gratitude to the government saying that Sokoto and Bauchi states would be the first to sign this tripartite MoU.
Also, Commissioner of Power, Bauchi, Maryam Garba, said the state will take advantage of the initiative and key into the federal government’s plan to provide electricity to in the state.