Ibrahim Shuaibu in Kano A former member of the House of Representatives, Hon. Abdulmumin Jibrin yesterday said the National Leader of All Progressives Congress (APC), Senator Bola Tinubu would contest for the office of the presidency in 2023. Speaking with journalists in Kano yesterday, Jibrin, the Director-General, Bola Tinubu Support Group Council, said arrangements for the former governor to declare his presidential bid are underway.
The former lawmaker said Tinubu is competent to be president of the country. “I can confirm to you that Tinubu will contest the 2023 elections. The aspect of the decision is done; it’s a done deal,” he said. “Arrangements to publicly declare will soon be known. I’m talking to you officially that he (Tinubu) will contest the presidential seat. “We need somebody who can carry along everybody and I believe that Tinubu is the best option for Nigeria. He is not a religious fanatic and has massive networks across all the boundaries in the country. “Asiwaju has worked extensively for the APC and never shifted ground. He is competent to be the president of this country. “Nigerians always go for quality and I believe that issue is purely on the quality of the person
“I do not see a dark horse coming in 2023. It will take s super miracle in APC and God willing, Mr Tinubu will emerge as president. “Asiwaju has an edge ahead of others. He will not lose the ticket and will be the president of this great country under the APC.” According to him, Today’s visit has really exhilarated a feeling in me that I have more than a brother in Rivers. I have always looked up to Wike and I have always told him he is a leader not because he is a governor or he has m money but the stuff he is made up. Very tough stuff and he is the face of PDP today and coming to Bauchi today my day has been made” On the agitation by some groups for him to contest, Mohammed said he has exceeded his personal expectation of himself having once to be a director, a senator, minister of FCT and a governor
“What we are after (Wike and I ) is the unity of this country, the progress and development and Nigeria, although I cannot claim to be near him in projects because he is the face of Project” Mohammed then appreciate Wike for his courage, forthrightness and capacity “to say it as it is and we try to follow you for your capacity to see the truth which is unmatched by anybody and people misunderstand you but I am proud to be with you and I assure you that we will not have any reason to fight.”