Okon Bassey in Uyo Akwa Ibom State Government has banned the activities of scrap scavengers in the state with immediate effect. The state government said the ban follows several incidents of grave infractions including acts of criminality and threat to peaceful inter-ethnic relationship in the state by operators of this enterprise. Government ordered the ban of the activities of scrap scavenger in a statement issued yesterday and signed by the Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Dr. Emmanuel Ekuwem. “The action of government is also in consonance with public sentiments amidst popular complaints against the activities of these scavengers who wantonly violate peoples properties, stealing and assaulting law abiding citizens in the process.” Dr Ekuwem stated. It noted that “sometime in 2021, multiple explosions, causing fatalities, were recorded in Oruk Anam Local Government Area in the course of scavengers sorting out what turned out to be military brand explosives. About four lives were lost in this incident.” “Similarly, on 2nd Jan, 2022 scavengers violated the premises of a citizen in Afaha Oku, Uyo Local Government Area in an attempt to cart away properties. “While attempting to prevent the scavengers, the citizen was callously murdered in cold blood while mob action was visited on the scavenger assailants causing the death of the two scavengers. “Sundays appear to be the busiest day for these scavengers who take advantage of mass Church attendance to invade homes and cart away valuables leaving hapless citizens with tales of woe upon their return from Church. “As a responsible government, we can no longer tolerate the activities of this industry which evidently is in no way adding value to the socio economic well being of the state but rather escalating tensions and threatening the overall peace and security of the State. “Accordingly, the operations of scrap scavengers in the State is banned forthwith. Violators of this ban will be apprehended and dealt with according to the law,” the statement stressed. Again, the state government reiterated the ban on motor cycle operation within the Uyo metropolis and environs. Government expressed dismay and serious concern the flagrant defiance of the ban on Motor Cycle operations within Uyo metropolis and environs. “This ban order is hereby reiterated with a warning that defaulters stand to lose not only their Motor Cycles, if apprehended, but also risk being prosecuted and possibly sentenced. “Security Agencies and the general public are therefore put on notice. An enforcement structure has been put in place to effect these directives to the letter. “The general public should be rest-assured that the Government of Akwa Ibom State will leave no stones unturned in ensuring the safety of lives and properties as well as the peace and security of the state,” the SSG posited.