Emmanuel Ugwu-Nwogo in Umuahia The political elites in Abia State have been urged to take special interest in the affairs of the state and begin to mobilise the people to ensure the emergence of good leadership in 2023. The Abia Freedom Alliance (AFA) made the clarion call in a communique issued after its third quarterly meeting in Umuahia, the state capital, noting that there was need for positive action plan to salvage the situation in the state in 2023. AFA, which defines itself as an association of concerned Abia technocrats, professionals, businessmen and religious leaders, regretted that Abia State elites have been standing aloof while their state continues to wallow in bad governance under the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). However, the group noted that 2023 would offer the people of the state the opportunity to arrest the bad situation by electing a competent person as governor to pilot the affairs of the state. “What Abia State needs in 2023 is an individual equipped with the necessary economic, political and social leadership skills, training and intellect to drive the engine of growth and development so as to move the state forward, having stagnated, indeed regressed, for the past 23 years under PDP,” it said. But for this to happen, AFA said Abia political elites must start now to mobilise the people towards “dispensing with the PDP government which has held Abia State down without progress for the past 23 years, as the general election in 2023 begins to gather momentum.” The group expressed disapproval at the quality of person that have so far made known their intention to vie for the governorship seat in 2023, with some waving the banner of sectional zoning arrangement as credentials. According to AFA, “Having reviewed their antecedents, the association does not think they have got the requisite leadership acumen and character to turn things around for Abia State post 2023, as they remain birds of a feather with Governor Okezie Ikpeazu and the PDP.” The group made its choice of governorship candidates known, saying a former bank boss, Mr. Alex Otti, is the type of person needed at this point in time to engage the state in the right direction for development. It, therefore, called on Otti “to make his intention to serve Abia State known,” adding that “AFA will endorse and support his candidacy if and when he chooses to step out.” The Alliance took a swipe at the administration of Ikpeazum decrying his “attitude towards outstanding salary arrears, pensions and non-payment of workers’ salaries as when due. “AFA notes with regret and embarrassment the continued non-payment of outstanding salary arrears, pensions and gratuities to serving and retired civil servants respectively running into several months and years. “It becomes even more disheartening when some of those owed are saddled with the responsibility to provide services in the area of health care and education for the citizens, in the case of those in service; and the aged, weak and sickly with regard to the retirees.”