The School of Cinematic Arts (SCA) at the University of Southern California (USC) and Netflix have partnered for a series of training workshops for the creative industry in Africa. The first in the series of talent development initiatives is a post production training programme in collaboration with Kunle Afolayan Productions (KAP) Film and Television Academy. The initial 10-week workshop will focus on creative picture editing and opens for applicants on the 21st of January closing 10 days later on the 31st of January 2022. Applicants can sign up at the KAP Film and Television Academy website. The initial workshop will be followed by a further three courses later in the year, focusing on both picture editing and sound design, respectively. The workshops are targeted at existing post-production talent and aim to upskill in creative editing, and sound design. The workshop will be led by world-renowned editors and SCA faculty, Douglas Blush, Stephen Flick and Richard Burton from USC School of Cinematic Arts. “Africa is a hugely important region for Netflix and as we grow the number of productions is important for African stories to be able to meet the growing demand for quality storytelling,” says Allison Triegaardt, Netflix’s Grow Creative Manager for Africa. “Our Grow Creative partnerships like the one with USC and KAP in Nigeria will help bridge the skills gap and upskill experienced crew. This will also ensure an even stronger diversity of voices, stories and points of view for our global audience.” Kunle Afolayan, founder of the KAP Academy who also recently directed Netflix’s original Nigerian Christmas movie, A Naija Christmas, says, “It has been amazing working with the Netflix team to produce dynamic Nigerian films, and it will only get better now that we are partnering with Netflix and USC to train the the newest crop of film post-production experts. These editors and sound designers will go on to craft Nigerian stories on a world-class level.” “For over 90 years the USC School of Cinematic Arts has trained Hollywood’s top picture and sound editors,” says Rachel Gandin Mark, Director of International Programs for the USC School of Cinematic Arts. “Now, thanks to this exciting partnership with Netflix and Kunle Afolayan’s KAP Studios in Lagos, our world-class and award-winning faculty, Douglas Blush, Stephen Flick and Richard Burton will bring their expertise in helping to train the next generation of Nigerian cinematic storytellers.” The USC School of Cinematic Arts is one of the most prestigious schools in the world for the study of all facets of the cinematic arts. Notable alumni include: Hwang Dong-Hyuk creator of Squid game; Jon Chu director “Crazy, Rich Asians”; Shonda Rhimes, creator and showrunner of “Grey’s Anatomy,” “Scandal” and “Bridgerton,” Ryan Coogler, director of “Black Panther;” George Lucas, creator of “Star Wars” and “Indiana Jones” George Lucas,” and Ron Howard, director of “How the Grinch Stole Christmas.” Since 1929, the School has nurtured and inspired the writers, directors, scholars, entrepreneurs, producers, animators, interactive designers, and others who have developed an unparalleled mastery in cinema, television, and new media.