Hammed Shittu in Ilorin As the 2023 general election approaches, members of the National Coalition Group (NCG) championing for the emergence of Vice President Yemi Osinbajo as president yesterday stormed Ilorin, the Kwara State capital, to seek the support of the state Chairman of the Traditional Council and Emir of Ilorin, Alhaji Ibrahim Sulu-Gambari, and the state chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for the presidential ambition of Osinbajo. The National Secretary of the group, Dr. Eli Eberechukwu Dibia, requested the emir to help canvass for the emergence of someone who will be president for all Nigerians in 2023. Speaking at the palace of the emir the leader of the group, Dibia said: “We are in Ilorin to seek the emir’s support for Osinbajo. “Emir should help canvas for a president that will be for all Nigerians, who will build on the legacies of President Muhammadu Buhari.” He insisted that Osinbajo remains the best presidential candidate that the APC can field for the 2023 presidential elections. Warning the APC leadership against fielding a wrong candidate for the elections, Dibia posited that: “The only person that the opposition is afraid of is Osinbajo. “If we make the mistake of not fielding appropriate candidate, APC may lose to the opposition. Eulogising Osinbajo’s leadership qualities, the team leader pointed out that the vice president drafted the legal frame work for the development of Lagos. He said: “We could see what he had done within the six months when Buhari travelled out of the country. Osinbajo has changed the economy for better and this kind of person should be allowed to lead the country so as to add more values to the growth of Nigeria. “He (Osinbajo) understands the economy. He has the capacity to serve Nigerians. He’s a loyal VP. We want a servant president.” Dibia also advised the National Leader of the APC and presidential hopeful, Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu, to allow his son, Osinbajo, to contest, saying: “A father should be happy when his son is moving forward, and should take it cool and allow Osinbajo to take the presidential slot come 2023. “Vice President Osinbajo has become a household name in Nigeria today, and we are advising Tinubu to allow him take the presidential slot so as to move the country forward.” While responding, the Emir of Ilorin, Sulu-Gambari, prayed to God to grant the country a peaceful transition in 2023. While acknowledging the federal government’s efforts to curtail security challenges confronting the country, the monarch prayed for the restoration of peace to every nook and cranny of the country. He thanked the pro-Osinbajo presidency team for the visit and wish them well in their programmes. Meanwhile, the Osinbajo group later visited the Speaker of the state House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. Yakubu Salihu-Danladi, and state secretariat of the party, where they solicited their support for the presidential ambition of Osinbajo.