Non-governmental organizations have always bridged the gap for governments in the provision of essential, humanitarian services to the citizens, usually touching many sensitive areas, by mobilising private funds. Over the years, dubious operators have found the terrain an easy channel to garner funds for personal enrichment. In this interview with THISDAY founder of Jawani Foundation, Juliet Akpesiri Imonije, also known as Queen of the Street Kids, bares her mind on the role of NGOs, her own street experience as a kid, which informed the establishment of the foundation and other issues Tell us a bit about your background? I hail from Delta State but was born and raised in Lagos in the 80’s. I studied Sociology at Delta State University, Abraka but have spent several years in the fashion world and have carved a niche for myself before delving into the corporate world as an Administrator. I am convener of Jawani Foundation and have over a period developed a deep passion for empowering, mentoring, and inspiring young girls and women who are less privileged. I am also a life coach for preteens, teenagers, and youths. I coach and mentor them of challenges they might face so they can know how to overcome them. A few years ago, what is Jawani Foundation today was an elegant fashionista that launched a foundation designed to positively touch the lives of the Girl child, especially the wellbeing of children, women and the needy in the society. What informed the establishment of Jawani Foundation? My journey as a girl child was what led me to the establishment of Jawani foundation and it all came from a true-life experience. I had a very humble beginning. I come from an average background. My parents helped us by simply teaching us values even when we had nothing. They managed and struggled to train us. My parents were the best gift God gave me. I was a sheltered teenager growing up, so when I got my first admission to a polytechnic to study Public Administration in the year 2013 and I lost it. I went astray all in the name of freedom. After a year, I realized the route I was heading was not the right path and could lead me to destruction. Reminding myself of the vow I made, I had to return home like the prodigal son in the Bible and start all over. This was a trying and sensitive stage in my life, but it became a turning point because my life changed dramatically. I had to make good use of the second chance God gave me, took my studies very seriously and gained admission to study Sociology. I graduated, and I am doing excellently well today. Looking back, isn’t it safe to say without that experience, there would probably be no Jawani Foundation today? Looking back, I am grateful and thankful to God for the experience thus far, I vowed I was going to make good use of my experience to bring up younger girls so as not to go astray in life and teach them the need to be educated. My purpose is not my plan, but one designed by God for me, which I am living right now. In school, I learnt that no dream is too big for me (62 million girls don’t have that chance). At that point, things started crystallizing for me and I had this conviction there was so much to be done and there was so much at stake. It was time to be an agent of change and make impact. So that was how Jawani foundation came about Supporting the Girl Child. Quite some people think NGOs are mere channels to enrich people more than what they claim to represent. What’s your take on that? Yes, people have the freedom to think, say or believe what they want to, and which is acceptable, but I really do not blame them, because the bad ones amongst us are spoiling the integrity of the good ones. These bad apples use NGOs to get rich quick. I would always say ‘any philanthropy without sacrifice is no philanthropy.’ Most times what we see in the clime is transactional and self-centered philanthropy.’ Most people venture into it as a channel to enrich themselves not for the love of humanity, that is why people no longer have faith committing their resources because they feel it won’t be used for the particular purpose in helping humanity, but like I would always say ‘Your work would make you stand out; there are no two ways about it and that is my belief. If God has given you a ministry or an assignment and you feel it is a way of enriching yourself, my dear, ‘whatever a man soweth that shall he reap.’ I rest my case. What have been some of your core achievements? Providing succour for the Girl child; providing a sense of community for girls going through challenges and a safe space for them to share their thoughts, fears, and aspirations; raising awareness of the importance of education to these young girls and youths from my experience. Empowering the girl child to know their worth and have confidence in themselves from a tender age to become powerful leaders of tomorrow, showing, teaching love and healing from past traumatic experiences of being a girl child in Africa, giving the girl child a voice through education by providing scholarships for children, as well as donation and outreach of school materials for 1,000 street children. Which areas of the work are more challenging? Generally, the work is challenging but specifically I would point to the areas enumerated like sexual harassment victims who find it difficult to confide in people because of the prejudice and judgement they are subjected to; the inability to accept change, people would rather remain where they are instead of embracing change; mentally and physically strain. This path I have embarked on can be quite exacting. It takes a toll on my health because people can be unhelpful and look for any chance to take advantage and financial constraints in executing projects. Majority of my projects are self-funded with minimal contributions from friends and family. What are your programmes for 2022? ‘The Widows Mite’ aimed at empowering 200 widows on various vocational and empowering them for startups. There will also be a talk titled, ‘Just because I am a Girl Child’ (A session where we bring together youths and facilitators that deal with issues pertaining to the wellbeing of the Girl Child), and ‘Christmas on the Street’ (It is our annual event where we gather and cater for over 1,000 children). How do you or can you measure your impact in the lives you touch? I would say excellent, because they have access to me and the kids under Jawani foundation scholarship are doing exceptionally well in their academics. Previous programs to empower women have been successful with many candidates going on to support themselves and their families with the skills they learned. Do you think in terms of regulation, more should be done? Sure, if it is for the right cause. Creating a regulatory body for NGOs to oversee and vet their activities to weed out the bad apples. What is your philosophy about life? ‘Live life with love and compassion, destroy it and it would destroy you’. How do you balance work and family? Hmmm, it has not been easy I must confess, it is all about sacrifice and thanks to my family that has been very accommodating and very supportive. The truth about life is that you must create time for whatever is considered your treasure. It is very challenging and hectic combining the two together, but I have been able to joggle all together because I have a great team and a wonderful family. This is what I have passion for, so I am delighted joggling everything together. After a hard day’s work, how do you wind down? Family time for me is foremost on my list and I treasure the moments I spend with family and friends. I indulge in so many guilty pleasures whenever I have the opportunity such as going on movie dates with my family, dining, reading, pampering myself at the spa, dancing, swimming, my me-times are very important and essential to me. Your parting shot to Nigerians? God made each one of us special, we are clothed in His strength, natural beauty, and dignity, we are ambitious and strong, and we need to be our sister’s keeper. We must follow our dreams, and while doing so, bring our fellow girls along to pull the generation close, empowered and inspired. I believe this is the true mark of a good role model. My good people of Nigeria, as the Beatles sang ‘Love is all we need’. Let’s forget about our differences and come together as one to fix this country. It takes you and I to effect the change we seek. We cannot sit and watch thing deteriorate. We all have a part to play in our own little way. The big question is: are you playing your part well? Finally, for our leaders, there is so much expected from them, together we can make the world a better place. Long live Nigeria and God bless Nigeria.