*Says he’s ready to deal decisively with terrorism *Begs God to listen to Nigeria’s prayer this trying period Deji Elumoye in Abuja President Muhammadu Buhari Friday expressed optimism that the nation will overcome the prevailing security challenges facing parts of the country. He also expressed his readiness to take on the terrorists by pursuing policies to eliminate them while praying to God to hear Nigeria’s prayer in addressing security issues facing the nation. The President, who spoke at the State House, Abuja, while playing host to the Grand Khalifa (overall head) of the Tijjaniyya Islamic Movement World-Wide, Tidjani Ali Bin Arabi, said his administration was conscious of its responsibility with regards to security and will continue to do its best. He, therefore, urged Nigerians to be fair to his government in assessing the security issue in the country by reflecting on what obtained at the time he took over in 2015, and the successes as well as performance which mark a decisive break from the past, particularly in the Northeast and the South-South, adding that the Northwest which had given the nation some “headache” will soon experience a turnaround for the better. President Buhari also advised Nigerians to take responsibility and show interest in the affairs of their own security and complement what the government is doing. He added that “we have done our best and we will continue to do more by pursuing coherent and consistent policies to deal with terrorism. I hope God will listen to our prayers.” The President appreciated the Kano State Governor, Dr. Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, who brought the Grand Khalifa to Nigeria, saying:
“We thank you for inviting them to come to pray for peace and stability in our country. We are grateful that they agreed to come.”
He joined them in praying that God will give guidance and strength to leaders to be accountable and do right in all things that they do. Earlier in his speech, Governor Ganduje, in introducing the Khalifa and his delegation, which included the Emir of Kano, Alhaji Aminu Ado Bayero and Sheikh Dahiru Usman Bauchi, the leader of the Tijjaniyya Islamic Movement in Nigeria, said the government of Kano State invited the Tijjaniyya World Leader to the country to lead the faithful in prayer considering the complexities around security in particular. According to him, the visit of the Grand Khalifa had also rekindled the old ties between the Tijjaniya and the many cultural and educational institutions in Nigeria. Also speaking, The Tijjaniyya leader in the country, Sheikh Dahiru Bauchi and the Grand Khalifa, Tidjani Ali Bin Arabi extolled the existing cordial relations between Nigeria and Algeria and prayed for guidance and blessings for the country and its leaders.