Yinka Kolawole in Osogbo Osun State Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola, has expressed satisfaction with the quality of work done at the ongoing construction of the Olaiya flyover in Osogbo, the state capital. He said his administration was irrevocably committed to giving the state a facelift of development by raising the bar of socioeconomic and infrastructure development in the state. The governor stated this during his unscheduled inspection tour to the flyover construction site at Olaiya junction, Osogbo, where he was given a rousing welcome and received by workers on site and residents of the area. Speaking after touring the project site in company of the Osun Central lawmaker, Senator Ajibola Bashiru, and some members of his cabinet, including the Commissioner for Works and Transport, Remi Omowaiye, the governor said no effort would be spared to ensure the delivery of quality and long-lasting infrastructure in the state. He commended the contractor for being faithful to his promise of quality and standard job, saying it was a thing of joy that the project measures up to international standard as justified by the quality materials used. Oyetola also expressed gratitude to the residents of Osogbo, particularly the people of the area for their patience and understanding, which he said had culminated in the success of the project. The governor urged people of the state to continue to support his government, noting that he was resolute to redefine governance towards improving infrastructural development of the state and the betterment of the people, whom he said are the direct beneficiaries of his administration policies and programmes. According to him, “I am highly satisfied with what I have seen so far. As you can see, the bridge is almost ready and in a few weeks, it will be ready for use by our people. You can see for yourself that this is almost completed. We don’t have room for abandoned projects. “I must commend the contractor for doing a very good job. This flyover is of international standard. We are satisfied with what we have seen as the quality of work done is excellent. We are raising the bar in infrastructure in the state and we are not going to relent because we are committed to replicating this good infrastructure gesture in different parts of our dear state. “I commend our people particularly those whose source of livelihood and economic activities were affected by the construction of this edifice. I commend their patience and perseverance that have contributed to the success of this project. “As we all know, we can’t do a project like this without some level of inconveniencies, so, I commend them for being patient with us. We are doing this in their interest, we want to ensure that they have a very smooth ride whenever they come around, we want to ensure that everyone around enjoy good network of roads in the state.” In his remarks, the lawmaker representing Osun Central senatorial district, Senator Bashiru, said he was convinced that the construction of the flyover would go a long way to ease traffic and ensure smooth movement of persons and goods within the state capital and beyond.