Segun James Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu yesterday said the Lagos Metro Rail Lines under construction in the state would commence operation this year. The governor said this after a tour of the train project from Ikeja where the Red Line begins to Yaba, Ebute Meta and finally to Marina. The Blue Metro system commences from Okokomaiko and terminates at Marina while the Red Line begins from Agbado to Marina. Despite the public holiday, Sanwo-Olu along with his entourage went on a tour of the project that lasted more than three hours. Speaking with journalists shortly after the tour, Sanwo-Olu explained that the monitoring of the project would be done quarterly it is completed. He commended the contractors for working as scheduled, assuring that work on the project would be delivered as promised. The governor added: “Our promise is on course, we are believing before the end of this year, we will see trains on top of these tracks. That is our commitment but we will continue to monitor and check ourselves. “In the last three and a half hours we have gone round to see the constructions ongoing between the Red Line and Blue Line. “You will recall we embarked on this trip three or four months ago. We promised that we will be doing it every quarter so that we can see how the contractors are doing. “I’m happy to report as you all have seen that the constructions are going on as scheduled. Despite today being a public holiday, all the contractors are on the sites. “You can see where we are coming from, the Ikeja iconic station which will be the most iconic for Red Line, almost the same size like that of Marina. We were able to see that the last time, they were just at the foundation level, but they are now in the second floor before they will get to the fourth floor which will be the final. “There will be an overpass at Awolowo Way to Agege Motor Road. Everything is on course and we are hoping especially the bridge components will be finished before schedule because of the impact of the traffic on the motorists around the corridor. “At Yaba, we wanted to make a detour into Mushin but because of the logistics of how to get into the Mushin station, noting there will be an overpass and a station also at Mushin. “At Yaba, the last time we were there, they were still excavating, but right now they are working to go to the second floor. You also saw the beams and they have been given a marching order to keep to timeline.” Speaking further, he said: “At Ebute Meta, there will be an overpass from Muritala Mohammed Road up to Apapa Road. They are launching the columns, the station is far ahead because they have completed the station. “At the Marina Station is the most iconic for the Blue Line. All the beams are to be launched.”