Oluwabunmi Fache The Chairperson, Apapa Local Government Area, Lagos Mrs. Idowu Sebanjo, has stated government’s determination to improve the primary healthcare delivery as part of dividend of democracy.
Sebanjo stated this when she visited the parents of the first child to be delivered in the local government early hours of Saturday. The baby boy, who weighed 3.5 kilogram was delivered at Ijora Oloye Primary Health Centre (PHC) by Mrs. Sukurat Okunade at 12.01 am.
According to one of the nurses at the health centre, Mrs. Okunade was admitted at about 7.00pm on Friday, the 31st December 2021 and was delivered of the baby at exactly 12.01 am on January 1, 2022.
Speaking during the visit to the parents of the baby, the Apapa LG boss noted that she came to celebrate the first child in her Local government, which she said was a sign of blessing.
According to her, the Lord had promised to fill the local government with blessings including children. Sebanjo disclosed that the local council would continue to work with the state government and other agencies with a view to improving primary healthcare delivery.
She said government has a robust plan for children in the council including providing a good environment that ensure they have quality education to prepare for their future.
Sebanjo, who presented the child with financial support and gifts, advised Mrs. Okunade to take good care of the baby boy who is the second child of the Okunades.
Apart from the chairperson, others officials from the council, including Dr.Sotunde Oladolapo (MOH), Mrs. Mosunmola Otaiku Okoka (Council Manager), Mr. Onasoga Kehinde (Public Affairs Officer ), prayed for the baby and the parents and also presented them gifts and financial support.
Responding, elated Mr. and Mrs. Okunade thanked God for blessing them with the first baby in the local government. They expressed appreciation to the Apapa LGA chairperson and the nurses at the Ijora Oloye Primary Health Centre.
The mother said her wish that Almighty God bless and take care of the baby boy for her, while praying for expectant mothers of God’s favour and support as well.