Last week, we started on this topic. We discussed some positive resolutions that can be made towards healthy fertility. This week, we will conclude with more resolutions. Lifestyle changes: A positive lifestyle change will in turn maintain a healthy fertility. Quit smoking as tobacco use is associated with lower fertility. Smoking ages your ovaries and depletes your eggs prematurely. If you smoke, ask your health care provider to help through the process to help you quit. Reduce alcohol consumption and caffeine intake. Heavy drinking is associated with an increased risk of ovulation disorders. If you would like to get pregnant, consider limiting /avoiding alcohol completely and limiting your caffeine intake to one or two cups of coffee a day. Reducing stress and vigorous exercises: Too much vigorous physical activity can inhibit ovulation and reduce production of the hormone progesterone. If you have a healthy weight and you are thinking of becoming pregnant soon, consider limiting vigorous physical activity to less than five hours a week. Women with higher levels of hormones linked to stress (cortisol) have more difficulty in getting and maintaining pregnancy as compared to women who experienced less stress. Stress has been found to alter hormonal levels and inhibit ovulation. Adequate sleep: Getting a good night’s rest helps to refresh and restore the brain and organ system functioning, thus regulating important body hormones including fertility related hormones. Sleep enhances release of the hormone LH (Luteinizing Hormone) which usually enhances maturation and rupture of the egg in the process called “ovulation” thus increasing the chances of achieving pregnancy. Use of Cosmetics: Most cosmetics, including nail polish, anti-bacterial soap, anti-aging creams, hair sprays and perfumes have negative effect on the female fertility due to toxic chemicals/heavy metals (e.g. lead) present in some of them. The use of lead based cosmetics has been associated with increased risk of spontaneous abortion and infertility in some women. RESOLUTION TO HEALTHY FERTILITY FOR COUPLE TRYING FOR BABY Oh! How often we relinquish the matters of fertility to chance and trust that it may soon happen. Most couple continues until they are over 40years, which is the age of fertility decline. Some couples have been on the waiting list of conception for a long time but until they take certain bold steps they may never achieve it. Here are some of the list of resolutions we can make this year regarding fertility.
• Identify what the causes of your infertility are; most fertility centers offers fertility counseling for free. The couple attempting pregnancy should be seen together, this facilitates unity and cooperation as they both have same understanding of the fertility options available. • Couple should take decision to undergo fertility investigations known as Fertility profiling / know your fertility status which is usually aimed at: Establishing ones fertility potential, identifying risk factors that may predispose one to infertility in the future. Diagnosing abnormalities that may need prompt management to avoid compromising one’s fertility.
Our fertility potentials vary from one person to the other and we usually may not have control over it, some genetic conditions like Endometriosis, Polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS), may adversely affect fertility. Some women may suffer from early shut down of their ovaries called “Premature Ovarian Insufficiency” (POI). There will be the need to carry out other tests which may come in form of blood test, semen analysis , pelvic ultrasound scan, Hysterosalpingogram (HSG) or Hysterosonogram (HSN) which should often reveal the cause of the fertility challenge and likely treatment the couples could benefit from. • Financial plans towards fertility is very important, most fertility treatment are not covered by insurance. They are majorly “ out of pocket processes”. They may be expensive and financially draining. Long term savings may be required for most low income earners to be able to assess fertility treatment. As the cliché goes, stop crying over spilled milk. It is advisable to move on with the recommended treatment options. Some couple are indecisive for years refusing to do nothing after they have been diagnosed and counseled toward appropriate fertility options. They keep living in denial of the real scenario and hoping that results would change with time or fertility improve with age, such attitude have resulted in couple eventually presenting later to fertility clinics to accept their fate and having children at a very late age, after retirement from active service. The best recommendation for couples saddled with fertility challenge is to “make hay while the sun shines”. Knowledge is power. Resolve to get fertility empowerment this year. Make plan to take advantage of the peak of your fertility for having babies. Certain things in life are time bound and reproduction is one of them. Planning to have babies earlier in life (though in some cases we do not have control despite all effort ) can save us the roller coaster of infertility treatment in the future. Wishing you success as you go through series of highlighted steps in trying for your dream babies and surely this year they will come by God’s grace.