Emma Okonji The Board of VDT Communications has appointed Mr. Steve Elusope as the Group Chief Finance and Strategy Officer to help steer the organisation into her next growth phase. By the appointment, the Board of VDT is entrusting Steve Elusope with the dual strategic roles of Group Chief Finance Officer and Group Chief Strategy Officer. Consequently, he is responsible for supervising Finance and Accounts, Business Intelligence, Business Solutions and Project Monitoring. He works closely with all key stakeholders in the group to ensure consistent achievement of both financial and non-financial business objectives. Elusope has garnered about 30 years of cognate work experience in banking and finance, pension administration, technology and communication services. Before joining VDT, he has held management level positions in various organisations for over 20 years, including Executive Director at Spectranet Communications Ltd, GM/Chief Executive at Global Trust Savings & Loans Ltd, Financial Controller at Stanbic IBTC Bank for over five years, Executive Director, Operations at Stanbic IBTC Pension Managers for over eight years, and Executive Director, Operations (Nigeria) at Cimple Networks Inc, USA. He also possess strategic skills and competencies in financial control, consultancy, management accounting, taxation, operational risk, IT operations, customer care, back-office operations, administration, and facility management; with proven abilities in defining organisational direction, instituting corporate governance, system optimization, human capacity building and achieving set targets. Elusope is a 1986 graduate of Accountancy from The Polytechnic Ibadan, Master of Business Administration from Delta State University (DELSU), Fellow (FCA) of The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria and Fellow (FCIB) of The Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria. According to a statement from the company, which was signed by its Senior Marketing Communications Manager, Mr. David Ese, “With the appointment, Elusope will bring his wealth of experience and versatility to bear on accelerating all facets of growth in VDT and the affiliate brands towards attaining their corporate objectives.