Mary Nnah The New Year Outreach organised by the Lions Club International District 404 B2 Nigeria in collaboration with Miracle Caring Hands Foundations was targeted at the Health workers and patients at the Paediatric Wards of the Lagos State Teaching Hospital (LASUTH), Ikeja. The initiative, which was initially planned for last Christmas but shifted to the New Year, was held to make the patients feel sense of belonging at a period of the year when everyone is usually in a cheerful mood. It was also let them know that they were not alone in their present condition, rather members of the Lions Club share in their pains. To this end, items including bedsheets, fans, water bottles, bags, food packs and drinks were distributed to over 150 patients at the Paediatric section of LASUTH, while a few patients were given cash as well to settle outstanding hospital bills. The health workers at this section were not left out as they were also given gifts to encourage their hard work and dedication. Speaking during the occasion, District Governor, Lions Club International, District 404 B2, Nigeria, Lion Kayode Oshinuga said: “Lions usually come here to see the baby of the year on every 1st of January but we discovered that so many people, business organisations and non-governmental organisations also come to see that same baby, so the baby and the family end up getting excessive gifts at the detriment of other patients. “So this year, we said we were going to spread it around rather than concentrating on the baby of the year, which is a blessed baby anyway, we want to make the gifts go round, we want everybody to be part of it. “That is why we decided to expand it and make more gifts so that we can give to so many other people.” The District Governor explained that originally, the club planned to reach out to over 150 patients who got various gifts but in addition, 20 people who were identified by the ward manager as indigents, in addition, got cash of N10,000 each to sort out their medical bills. “Some of these patients have not been able to afford the little drugs they were told to buy while some of them have remained even after they were discharged because they cannot afford the hospital bill”, he revealed further. Speaking on the impact the gesture would have on the beneficiaries, he said, “At least they would know that they are not alone in their present condition; even going in there to see them, we have lifted their spirits so much that even with all the gadgets some children have on their bodies, they were able to stand up, smiled and receive us. “That is one of the greatest satisfactions we have. We also have gifts for the health workers and the parents too.” Speaking also, the Vice Chairman, New Year Outreach for Health Workers and Patients, Lion Mark Ebare, said, “We have delivered some items to the CMD`s office which include bed sheets, fans and other items that would be needed in the hospital. “We have also distributed other items like food packs, drinks, water bottles and other items to the patients in the wards as well as the staff that attend to them. We are also giving out money for those patients who are unable to pay for their drugs and hospital bills.” Chairman, Miracle Caring Hands Foundations, Mr. Adeola Emmanuel Adebayo who was represented a Lion member, Clementina Uzoegwu, said the foundation believes in the Lions Motto, which is “We Serve”, the reason the foundation is spurred to collaborate with District 404B2 Nigeria to put smiles on the health workers and the patients in this beginning of the year. The foundation gave cash support to eight Paediatric patients along with other gift items. Responding, Chief Medical Director, LASUTH, Prof Adetokunbo Olusegun Fabamwo, thanked the club for making the donations, adding that the items would go a long to better the lives of the patients and workers in the department. Fabamwo, recalled many other projects the club had undertaken for the teaching hospital. He urged the club to do more for the institution because the government alone cannot do it all.