Vexed by the attack on the Emirs of Bauchi and Dass by yet to be identified hoodlums in Tafawa Balewa, last Friday, youths of Bauchi Emirate have staged a peaceful protest at the Palace of the Emir of Bauchi calling on the Emir, Dr Rilwanu Suleiman Adamu to as a matter of urgency, suspend Hon Yakubu Dogara as a traditional title holder of the Emirate. The youths, who staged the protest yesterday, shouted that the former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon Yakubu Dogara is not fit to still be addressed as the Jakadan Bauchi. The youths, who carried placards with different inscriptions such as ‘Dogara is a disaster’, ‘No more Dogara in Bauchi’ and others also chanted unprintable words against the person of the former speaker who is currently representing Bogoro /Dass /Tafawa Balewa Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives. Spokesperson of the youths, Comrade Nurudeen Yau Gwabba, while speaking to journalists said: “We as youths of Bauchi Emirate are calling on the Emir of Bauchi to immediately suspend Yakubu Dogara as Jakadan Bauchi”. “The call became necessary considering the humiliation meted out to the Emirs of Bauchi and Dass by hoodlums from Bogoro and Tafawa Balewa LGA last week Friday on their way to attend a function they were duly and officially invited for.” Gwabba stressed that, “we are proud of the Emir of Bauchi, moreso, he is the Chairman of the State Council of Traditional Rulers. What was done to him was a huge humiliation. As a traditional title holder of the Emirate, Yakubu Dogara should have averted it.” According to him, youths of the emirate will not just sit down, fold its arms and watch ill treatment of Emirs who are fathers of all irrespective of ethno-religious inclination. “We are therefore, calling on the Bauchi Emirate to as a matter of urgency, suspend his traditional title of Jakadan Bauchi ,”he said. In the same vein, Coalition of Youths and Students of Bauchi State has called on Bauchi State Government to initiate a judicial commission of inquiry to investigate the sad event, hoping that the culprits will be brought before a court to face the law. According to the Coalition, “this sad event unfolds amidst strong allegations of Dogara’s resistance against the said memorial where he tried his very best to put a stop to the program by breaching protocol and writing directly to the IGP while bypassing the state Police Commissioner, DSS and the State Governor who doubles as the Chief Security Officer of the state”. It added that: “Consequently, his strong insistence against the memorial cast serious suspicion against his person, that we suspect he has a hand in the unfortunate event. While also suspecting serious power tussle between him and Professor Suleiman Bogoro as reason why he resorted to sabotaging the event obviously because Professor Suleiman Bogoro is the headliner of the said event.” The coalition further stated that, “by Dogara’s actions and inactions, it has so far resonates every sensible and well meaning individuals within and outside the geographical boundaries of Bauchi State that Dogara Yakubu has hands in this crisis.” The coalition, in a press statement signed by its chairman, Ambassador Usman Saleh said: “Proactively, we cannot afford to return to those sad days of ethnic crises in Bauchi state as the 1991 Tafawa Balewa crises still fresh in our memories. We are urging the state government to take serious action against him as no individual is bigger than the state “. While receiving the youths at his Palace, Emir of Bauchi, Dr Rilwanu Suleiman Adamu called for calm, advising the youths to control their anger and not let it get out of control to lead to reprisal attacks. The Emir, who was represented by the Ajiyan Bauchi, Alh Abubakar Bala Ajiya, assured the youths that the Emirate Council will look into their demands and make its position public in due course urging them to pacify other youth groups who may want to embark on similar protest. Meanwhile, stakeholders from Tafawa Balewa and Bogoro Local government areas have condemned in strong terms, the attack on the convoys of Emirs of Bauchi and Dass by suspected hoodlums. The stakeholders made their stand during a sympathy visit to the Emir of Bauchi, Dr Rilwanu Sulaiman Adamu in his palace. The leader of the delegation Senator Adamu Ibrahim Gumba said that they were at the Emir’s palace to commiserate with him over the attack . Gumba added that the people of Bogoro and Tafawa Balewa are known to be law abiding citizens since from their ancestors and this incident was totally condemn by all Zaar sons and daughters and are pleading the Emir to forgive our youths and promised that such incident will never occur again. In his address, the National President ZAAR association, Mr. Isuwa Galla thanked the emir for granting them the audience in which they will never take it for granted. He promised the emir that the ZAAR community will continue to be law-abiding citizens, and will continue to leave in peace with one another. In his response, Emir Adamu appreciated the delegation for such a remarkable visit, and assured the Zaar, jaar as well as other notables across Bogoro, Tafawa Balewa, and entire state for his total support towards ensuring lasting peace in all the communities in which without peace there won’t be any significant developments across the communities.