Funmi Ogundare It was jubilation recently as Babcock University, Ilishan Remo in Ogun, inducted 54 doctors into the Medical and Dental Council of Nigeria (MDCN). Miss Perelade Jojo Kingdom topped the class with eight distinctions in Anatomy, Biochemistry, Physiology, Pathology, Obstetrics and Gynecology, Paediatrics, Surgery and Internal Medicine.​
At the sixth induction ceremony held at the Pioneer Church of the institution, she told THISDAY, “So I’m happy.” Kingdom, aspiring to be a researcher, ascribed her success to God and her parents. Other medical inductees were Miss Toluwalope Ogunjimi with seven distinctions in Anatomy, Biochemistry, Physiology, Obstetrics and Gynecology, Paediatrics, Surgery and Internal Medicine; Vivian Ezeh with six distinctions in Anatomy, Physiology, Pathology, Paediatrics, Surgery and Internal Medicine. Abia governor’s daughter Betsy Ikpeazu had four distinctions in Anatomy, Biochemistry, Obstetrics and Gynecology, and Internal Medicine. Earlier in his remarks, the Provost, Benjamin Carson School of Medicine, Prof. Barnabas Mandong, commended the graduates for their perseverance, determination, and courage to undergo medical training. “I believe that the sky shall be the beginning of your growth. I wish to remind you that as trained mission doctors, be good ambassadors of your parents, Babcock University and Nigeria,” stated Mandong. The Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Ademola Tayo, admonished them to be prepared to have workplace challenges while setting the needs of their patients before that of the system.” He added, “This time I’m medicine is both particularly exciting and challenging one for doctors. In Nigeria, there are challenges of doctor-patient ratio, remuneration and facilities. How you deal with these challenges will determine your staying power in the profession.” The MDCN registrar, Dr. Tajudeen Sanusi, appealed to the doctors to stick to the council’s code of professional ethics, saying their certificate will be revoked if they fail to do so. “We have our code of ethics for professionalism. It is important to note that the tribunal is no respecter of anyone for misconduct. If for any reason you are convicted, for any crime, your name will be erased,” he pointed out. Governor Okezie Ikpeazu of Abia described the medical profession as a calling to serve and have compassion on people while congratulating the VC for his efforts. The programme witnessed the presentation of a gift to Prof. Ayodele Desalu, reputed to be the oldest and longest-serving anatomist in Nigeria.