Steve Aya Members of Association of Law Firms Administrators, Nigeria (ALAN) have restated their resolve to work towards improving the standard of law practice in Nigeria. This commitment was stated at the Association’s first end of year dinner cocktail party held in Lagos recently, where ALAN’s new vision was launched. In her welcome address, the Association’s Vice President, Miss Oduola Onodikpe, welcomed all guests to the occasion, stating that it was an evening to unwind with all partners, friends, sponsors most especially those who stood with the Association during its teething stage. She promised that the Association would work hard to improve on the standard of law firms to better service delivery to clients, by organising constant training for its members, with the promise that the best is yet to come. In his Keynote address, Mr Dan Agbor, the Managing Partner of Udo Udoma and Bello Osagie, stressed the need for law firm administrators to always look forward to new innovations that will enhance their work. He said that law firms have evolved from the simple law office where a Lawyers sit down to write briefs, to very big complex, multifaceted offices that require the best administrative skills and brains, with the law firm administrator who is the glue that pulls and holds the firm together. He then called on law firm Managing Partners, to see these administrators as part of the tools needed to build the brand they dream of having. Also speaking, Both Mr Ayuili Jemide and Mr Femi Banwo, poured encomiums on law firm administrators for their hard work that has indeed, turned today’s law firms into a modern one stop shops for clients. According to Mr Jemide, “ALAN is a very important body for law firms in Nigeria; you need to engage the law firms a lot to recognise the value that these administrators bring to the table, and that is why we need to see them as partners”. “We must impress it upon all Lawyers, that these administrators who are not Lawyers, do bring a lot to the law firms’, Banwo added.