Emma Okonji Poa Internet and Africa50 has announced the completion of Africa50’s equity investment into Poa, a funding that is part of the $28 million financing round led by Africa50. The fund will be used to support the company’s future growth plans across Kenya, and to further launch the business into other African markets. Also participating in the first closing is Novastar Ventures, which is making its third investment into the company and a number of other existing shareholders. Since starting operations in 2016, Poa has continuously improved its operations and market position and currently has over 12,000 home internet customers, as well as tens of thousands of street Wi-Fi customers. This additional funding demonstrates investors’ confidence in Poa’s ongoing strategy and underscores the need for African Internet Service Providers (ISPs) that focus on bridging the digital divide across the African continent. Poa Internet’s CEO, Andy Halsall, said: “Poa is all about connecting the unconnected of Africa to create opportunities for growth, learning and economic stimulus through digitisation. We have a young, energetic and committed team, that are working tirelessly to make our vision a reality. Now with Africa50’s investment, we can ramp up our roll-out plans and provide value to even more communities across Kenya.” Managing Director and Head of Infrastructure Investments at Africa50, Raza Hasnani, said: “We are delighted to partner with Poa Internet on its mission to provide unlimited broadband internet to underserved communities.” According to Hasnani, “Poa has been instrumental in bridging the needs of last-mile connectivity, and their ultra-low-cost solutions can be used to address the significant connectivity gaps in Kenya and across the African continent as a whole. This is particularly important at a time when societies and economic activities are increasingly becoming digitized as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Increasing access to reliable and affordable internet connectivity is strongly aligned with the key pillars of Africa50’s strategy, and we are excited to be part of this high impact journey and to support Poa’s growth in Africa.”