Kano Pillars Chief Coach, Ibrahim Musa, believes Sai Masu Gida’s first full away points of the season in Owerri against Heartland in an NPFL Matchday 9 will galvanize their campaign for the season which has been very unimpressive before their win yesterday. Mark Daniel’s 92nd-minute strike off an intelligently laid cross from fellow substitute, David Ebuka earned Pillars their first away win of the season. Musa, who stood in for head coach, Salisu Yusuf that was away to the 2021 Africa Cup of Nations in Cameroon, said they worked very hard to secure their maiden away win of the season. He confessed that they have been troubled by their inability to have any meaningful result in away games before the match but are now motivated by the result in Owerri. Musa is optimistic that just like last season when a positive away result brought about a 10-match unbeaten streak, they are hoping to build on the win in Owerri to steer their way to the top of the league table. “It was a victory we worked so hard to get. We all knew the circumstances that led to our loss to Heartland last season but we came fully prepared this term to secure a positive result,” Musa told Npfl.ng. Musa pointed out that Kano Pillars will build on the performance when they host yet-to-be-beaten Remo Stars in Kaduna on Wednesday with the determination to secure the maximum points again. In the match, Heartland were uncoordinated in the attack and missed several scoring chances due to their lack of tact in the final third. The game was headed to a goalless draw but a momentary loss of concentration in defence allowed substitute, Ebuka’s long-range cross to fellow substitute, Daniel to go one on one with Goalkeeper, Femi Thomas and he fired the ball into an unguarded net in the 92nd minute. Heartland Chief Coach, Willy Udube called the loss a wake-up call and he tasked the players to be alive to their responsibilities. Udube also called on the Imo Government to ensure the club is adequately motivated. “We see this loss as a wake-up call for us. The manner of the goal we conceded left much to be desired because our players displayed lack of discipline to have conceded such a goal at the time they did,” Udube told reporters at the end of the game. “We must show we are united by going to our next game in Ibadan to prove a point against Shooting Stars. We also want to appeal to the state government to properly motivate the team.”