Funmi Ogundare The Lagos government has commended the Mudashiru Obasa-led House of Assembly for passing the bill establishing Lagos State University of Education (LASUED) and Lagos State University of Science and Technology. It also lauded the institution for backing Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu administration’s vision for quality education and technology with appropriate legislation. When assented to by the governor, the bills will increase state-owned universities to three. The Special Adviser to the Governor on Education, Tokunbo Wahab, in a statement, said with the law establishing the proposed universities in place, other logistics, including finances, equipment, and instructional materials, capacity building, among others to ensure a smooth take-off, would be supported. “The Lagos Assembly lawmakers had during their plenary session on November 15, 2021, adopted the recommendations of the Committee on Education (tertiary institutions) on Lagos State University of Science and Technology Bill 2021,” explained the statement. It added that following the recommendations, Deputy Speaker Wasiu Eshinlokun-Sanni, who presided over the plenary, adopted the recommendations of the committee as the resolutions of the house. He said the passing of the LASUED bill by the house put a stamp on establishing two additional state universities. Wahab noted that the two bills, coming at the time when JAMB candidates were jostling for universities admissions, were a further demonstration of the government’s commitment to providing Lagos indigenes unrestricted access to university education while promoting the growth of science and technology education. The special adviser recalled that Sanwo-Olu had, during a public lecture at the Lagos State University (LASU), promised that there would be no going back on the proposed two universities. He appealed to the people of the state to support the take-off of the two universities the way they did during the public hearing. The Lagos official added that the location of the headquarters of either of the institutions should not be a barrier since all indigenes of the state would have equal opportunity for admissions and job placement.
‘’This is giving democracy dividends to our people, our people have expressed the need for two additional universities to give our youths more access to varsity education and the house has done the needful by holding a public hearing on it, which truly reflected the wishes of the people,” noted Wahab.