Bayelsa State Governor, Duoye Diri, says the First News “Man of the Year 2021” Award is the best of such laurels he has received since the inception of his administration in the state. Governor Diri stated this on Thursday in Yenagoa, when the management of First News Media Network Limited, led by their Chairman/Publisher, Mr Daniel Iworiso-Markson, conferred on him the organisation’s “Man of the Year 2021” Award. Diri, who received the award in his office in Yenagoa, the state capital, noted that of all the awards he had so far received as the governor of Bayelsa State, the First News “Man of the Year 2021” Award was the one he appreciated most. Elated Governor Diri enthused, “I think this (First News Award) is what I actually appreciate out of all the awards that you people (media) have been bringing.” Earlier, while presenting the award to the governor, First News Media Network Limited Chairman/Publisher, Iworiso-Markson, who is also the immediate past commissioner for information in Bayelsa, expressed the company’s delight in honouring the state’s number one citizen for his laudable achievements in less than two years in office. A brief by the company’s management on the “Man of the Year 2021″Award conferred on Governor Diri, reads: “FirstNews Man of the Year Award 2021 Presented to His Excellency, Senator Douye Diri, Governor of Bayelsa State. “Your Excellency sir, It is no longer news that Bayelsa State is experiencing an unprecedented level of peace and stability under your leadership and this is because of the open door policy you operate, which gives everyone a real sense of belonging. “In the last two years, we have closely followed your leadership style and we are greatly impressed about how you have made Bayelsa the desired destination of many. Aside from supporting security agencies to effectively combat crime and criminality, you have reduced the political tension in the state, which used to be a major cause of clashes and inter-party rivalry. “We make particular reference to how you invited some members of the opposition party in the state to join you and other leaders for the maiden commercial flight to the Bayelsa International Airport. “Clearly, you have demonstrated that as a people, politics shouldn’t bring about division. In addition to that, you have set a new record that as governor you do not only serve members of your party but the general interest of the state. “Little wonder Bayelsa is growing exponentially. We commend you in this regard and urge you to continue along this trajectory. You’re indeed our Man of the Year 2021 for your UNENDING TENACITY In PROMOTING PEACE AND STABILITY IN BAYELSA STATE”.