John Shiklam in Kaduna The Kaduna State Police command said it has rescued 16 persons kidnapped along the Birnin Gwari road. Spokesman of the command, Muhammad Jalige, disclosed this in a statement yesterday in Kaduna. He said the victims were rescued following information provided to the police who acted promptly. Jalige said: “On the 16th January, 2022, the Kaduna Police Command through Divisional Police Officer (DPO) Buruku received information that some persons were sighted around Masallaci area along Birnin Gwari road who were suspected to be victims of kidnapping.” Jalige said on the strength of the report, the DPO immediately mobilised personnel on rescue mission to the area. He said on sighting the troops the hoodlums took to their heels leaving behind 16 victims whom the operatives successfully rescued, noting that they are from Lagos, Kano, Zamfara and Niger states. According to him, the rescued victims include: Patience Markus, Mercy Musa, Gloria Sunday, Yunis Sunday, Peace Ayuba, Grace Sunday, Sarafina Sunday and Mechak Musa. Others, according to Jalige include: Musa Mudu, Joshua Mudu, Jummai Musa, Alfa Markus, Abdulaziz Shola, Tanimu Muhammed, Mutari Idris and Sani Musa. The statement victims were successfully rescued as a result of the participation and vigilance of the community who promptly reported the incident to the security agencies. The statement urged other communities to coorperate with security personnel to combat criminality. In another development, the police command said it recovered a Toyota Corolla car snatched at gun point in Zaria metropolis. Jalige said on the 16th January, 2022, acted on a report that a Toyota Corolla vehicle was seen packed in a seemingly suspicious manner at old tipper garage Mando Kaduna. He said: “The Police Operatives of the Command attached to Kawo Division immediately swung into action and recovered the vehicle with Reg. No KSF 674 HD Maroon in colour to the station for further investigation and possible arrest of the perpetrators.