Chuks Okocha The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) yesterday nullified the ward delegate congresses it conducted in Ekiti state on the 15th of January, 2022. The party has also disclosed that it will use the statutory/automatic delegate list to conduct its governorship primary election scheduled to hold this week in Ekiti state. This was part of the resolutions reached by the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party over Ekiti State election matters. Ekiti State has been embroiled in crisis after the congresses conducted by three-man ad-hoc ward delegate on the 15th of January, 2022. Addressing journalists shortly after an emergency meeting to thoroughly deliberate on the reports of the Special Committee and that of Appeal Panel, the National Chairman of the party, Senator Iyorcha Ayu, disclosed the position of the party on Ekiti state primary. The resolutions of the party said: “That all parties and stakeholders have agreed to abide by the decision of the party in all matters relating to all issues concerning the position of the party in Ekiti state. “That the three-man ad-hoc ward delegate congresses in Ekiti state held on 15th January, 2022 is hereby nullified. “That the party’s governorship primary election shall be conducted using the statutory/automatic delegate list. That all pending court cases in all matters relating to the congresses in Ekiti state must be withdrawn herewith. “That any person defiant to the decision to withdraw all pending court cases which contradicts the provisions of the party’s Constitution shall be referred to the disciplinary committee of the party. That the party assures all aspirants, stakeholders and party faithful of a free, fair, transparent and credible governorship primary election in Ekiti state.” Meanwhile, after an over four hours meeting between the PDP governors, the party’s NWC and the stakeholders of the party, with all governorship aspirants in Ekiti state, it was agreed that the Wednesday governorship primary election shall be conducted with the statutory delegates or through automatic delegates. In a communique signed by the National Chairman of PDP, Ayu and the National Secretary, Senator Sam Anyanwu, it was agreed that all court cases by stakeholders in relation to the three man ad-hoc election shall immediately be withdrawn and failure to do shall attract disciplinary action