Sylvester Idowu Delta State Governor, Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa has constituted a Panel of Inquiry to determine the cause of the collapsed building of the Okpanam branch of Salvation Ministries in the state. Also the Delta State Police Command yesterday confirmed that only three person’s died in the church building collapse at Okpanam in Oshimili North Local Government area of the state. The victims included two female children and a woman while others sustained severe injuries. THISDAY observed that the incident occurred at about 5.50 pm trapping several worshippers. Though it was reported that 10 people died, State Police Public Relations Officer, Edafe Bright, a Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP the state police confirmed only three death in the incident. “Rescue Operation is over, 18 people rescued initially, four person’s discharged, 11 persons still receiving treatment, three deaths recorded which include two female children and one woman, their names unknown for now, kindly debunk the rumours making rounds that ten people died, that’s not correct,” he stated. The Governor, in a statement signed by the Secretary to the State Government, Chief Patrick Ukah, expressed shock and sadness to receive news of the collapse of the building” situated on Okpanam Road, Asaba on Tuesday. According to the statement, the State Government has also suspended the processing and/or approval of building plans for Core Area ll until the Panel of lnquiry concludes its work. The panel has Dr.(Mrs.) Helen Anazia, as Chairperson with Engr. S. A. Aghagba, Director, Ministry of Works, Engr. Rex Orhe, Deputy-Director, Ministry of Works, Arc. Orerhime Iduseri, Ministry of Housing, Builder Isichei Felix Ekene, Ministry of Housing and Barr. Moses Agwere, Assistant Director, Ministry of Justice as members. The Assistant Director, Office of the Secretary to the State Government, Barr. Igho Eduvie will serve as Secretary of the Panel, which has two weeks for its assignment. The Panel will inquire into and report on events surrounding the collapse of the building, including the number and identity of the deceased and the injured in the building, It will also look into immediate and remote causes of the collapse as well as the scope and adequacy of current legislation, regulations, policies, and processes concerning the safety of buildings for public use amongst others. The panel is expected to make recommendations for any measures necessary or desirable to prevent or minimise the collapse of buildings in Delta State and any other matters arising out of, or relating to, the foregoing that come to the Panel’s notice during its inquiries.