Solewant Group has won the NewsDirect Oil & Gas Contractor of the Year Award, an independent seal of excellence that recognises businesses for delivering exceptional experiences. The NewsDirect Oil & Gas Contractor of the Year Award is meant for only businesses that meet a high standard, based on quality leadership skills, contracts implementation, quality of projects execution, and contribution to local content. The award was conferred on Solewant Group on the 21st day of January, 2022 during NewsDirect’s 11th Anniversary Lecture & Award Ceremony that has the title: “Public Sector Financing: The Oil Revenue Challenges, Solutions and Prospect.” According to NewsDirect, Solewant Group is “an outstanding contractor, with a strong impact on the Nigerian economy, the outcome of which, when analyzed, revealed a strong nexus the organization’s formidable deliverables, and the growth manifested in the Nigerian energy sector.” The Managing Director/CEO, Solewant Group, Mr. Solomon Ewanehi, while accepting the award said he is happy that the good works of Solewant has not gone unnoticed. “We are honored to receive this award from NewsDirect. Thank you to each and every one of our clients and partners for your continued support and loyalty,” Ewanehi said. “We are committed to customer satisfaction, safety, including visibility and transparency throughout operations, continuous improvements, enhanced risk management, heightened employee satisfaction, and a stronger monitoring of processes in line with industry demands.” He added: “Our appreciation goes to NewsDirect for this recognition.” Several other awards and recognitions were bestowed upon distinguished individuals and principal corporate bodies in Nigeria. Notably, organisations that emerged as the top seven ‘Exemplary Leaders’ are Lagos Internal Revenue Service (LIRS), Galaxy Backbone, NCC, NCDMB, NNPC, NIESV and Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority (NSIA). The event had in attendance top personalities, seasoned stakeholders and decision makers in the public/private spheres of the Nigerian economy. Solewant Nigeria Limited, along with its subsidiaries (Solewant Nigeria Limited, Solewant Specialty Protective Coatings & Paints Limited, and Field Joint Coating Limited), excel in the provision of pipe, metal and field joints coating services. Now, the Group is now entering the next phase of its extensive development through a series of investments and expansions. Supporting the oil & gas, water, chemical processing, mining, refining, electricity, transportation and marine industries, the US-based Solewant Group subsidiary has refined its business model in protecting all metal and concrete services through its range of services in West Africa.