Yinka Kolawole in Osogbo In grand display of pomp and circumstance yesterday morning, Osun State workers welcomed the state Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola, into office after the yuletide break. They lauded the contributions of the governor to the growth and development of the civil service in the state as manifested in the priority given to their welfare and well-being since assumption of office by the governor. This is even as Oyetola presented cars and other star prizes facilitated by the state government to outstanding workers for their commitment and dedication to duty, saying their unflinching support, cooperation and understanding had been magnanimous. The workers received the governor at the main gate of the state government secretariat with solidarity songs and funfair to demonstrate their gratitude for his passion and love for the state workforce. The workers led by the state Chairman of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Jacob Adekomi, and the Head of Service, Dr. Festus Olowogboyega Oyebade, trekked with the governor from the gate to the Governor’s Office parking lot, the venue of the yearly inter-religious prayer session organised to mark the first work day and herald the new year. The jubilant workers were seen with pro-government banners with different inscriptions such as: ‘Osun Workers are saying Thank You’; ‘We are solidly behind you and your administration’; ‘Thank You for being there for us’, among others. Speaking at the prayer session, the state Chairman of the NLC, Adekomi, attributed the rousing welcome of the governor to the continued support the workers had received from him since assumption of office. Adekomi, who described Oyetola as the best helmsman and an astute manager of human and material resources, said the gains recorded so far by the state workforce remain unquantifiable under his watch. He said: “First and foremost, we give glory to God for sparing our lives till date because if not, who are we? As workers, we are very happy today because the governor has been very attentive to our plights. He has been listening to agitations and demands. “As you can see, another innovation has come our way today as the governor has donated cars to some workers, the first of its kind in the history of the state since its creation. “Also, the governor has approved car refurbishing loans for workers. This is what we have been agitating for over the years. He has given civil service a facelift and he has equally approved our 10,000 hectares of land for the construction of over 180 housing units for workers in the state, to mention but a few because we have series of achievements to his credit.” In his remarks, the governor described the workforce in the state as the brain behind the success story of his administration, as their labour, passion, discipline and conviction constituted the wings upon which the administration flies in fulfilling its sacred mandate. He implored them to commit to doing better, improve their personal and collective productivity, and rededicate themselves to the Omoluabi ethos. Oyetola described 2021 as one in which the state recorded very significant achievements that made life better for the people and placed them on a surer footing of sustainable economic development. He said the preceding year also brought the citizens nearer to their envisioned destination of an Osun that is absolutely prosperous and a pride to all and sundry. The governor noted that his administration has kept faith with his electoral promise of putting workers’ welfare first and ensuring that they are duly compensated for their invaluable contributions. Oyetola urged the residents to continue to maintain peace, religious tolerance and harmonious relationship that the state was known for. In their separate lectures, the Chief Imam, Federal Polytechnic, Ede, Taofeek Abdulhammed, and state Chairman, Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Bishop Amos Ogunrinde, admonished the people to always put God first in whatever they do. The clerics, who advocated for peaceful coexistence, called on the people to see their positions, powers and other worldly things as ephemeral, saying they must be conscious of the day of accountability and stewardship before God. The cars beneficiaries were a Public Health nurse, Mrs. Adeosun Francisca Adebola; a staff of the Ministry of Works, Adepoju Rasak Daramola; a Primary School teacher, Mrs. Abiola Grace Aduke; a Secondary School teacher, Mr. Adeyemo Isiaka Adeoye; OSBC reporter, Mr. Yemi Aboderin, and many others who went home with different prizes.