Business czar, Nafiu Bala Rabiu, Head honcho of Balnara Universal Ltd, a business conglomerate with an interest in Real Estate, Rice Production, and Logistics is not a greenhorn in the corporate world. He has constantly deviated from the norm by working assiduously to carve a niche for himself in business. Nafiu started working at the tender age of 18 in his elder brother’s company; Ramu Unique Resources, a multi-billion Naira company and the number one BUA Cement Distribution Company that is into Real Estate, Logistics, Rice Mill as well as BUA Cement Distribution, a company where he got his first job and expanded his business experience. The Kano-born mogul’s name is synonymous with success more reason he has remained a highflyer and a stickler for success which has helped him thrive tremendously in the business and other things he ventures into. His lofty disruptive business ideas have earned him global recognition as a fast-rising businessman that will reshape business narrative a few years to come with business takeovers and solid investment opportunities. The most interesting of his entrepreneurial sojourn that marvels many to date is how he was able to stabilize his chain of business despite the adverse effect of Covid-19 on business across the world. Like a skilled seafarer, he was able to navigate through the business typhoon that set out to swallow him. Using a pragmatic approach, he steadily positioned his company to meet requirements to generate funds for self-sustainability and growth. That singular cerebral move helped him stabilize as he paid salaries and also runs the business like nothing ever happened. This was not achieved with fluke but with his repertoire of knowledge as a time-tested businessman who learnt rudiments of business positioning in time of crisis. With this singular achievement amidst others, he was nominated and going to be awarded by The top Ten Magazine as ‘Young Northern Nigeria business leader of the year 2020’. This is coming after he had a fantastic year all around in business contributing vehemently to the growth of trade and commerce in Nigeria and the Northern part of the country. He has also created employment for many youths which earned him such a great feat. In the New Year, Rabiu is leaving no stone unturned as he plans to take over; diversifying into more business chains and also crest his name in gold competing with bigger conglomerates giving them a run for their money. “As the year ended, things keep getting better for me and my team. This award is an indication that; we are doing something right and I humbly accept the award as Northern youth business leader of the year with much gusto, ” He enthused.