Onuminya Innocent The Nigeria Police Zamfara State Command said police and other security agencies have rescued 97 kidnapped victims in the state. The Commissioner of Police (CP) in the state Ayuba Elkannah stated this at press briefing at the command headquarters in Gusau. Elkannah disclosed that the victims consists of 25 women, including seven pregnant women, 10 children between two and seven years old. The CP further added that the victims were rescued unconditionally from two local councils of Shinkafi and Tsafe in the State. “A total of 97 kidnapped victims have regained freedom from two local government areas of Zamfara he stated . He said the breakdown showed 68 from Shinkafi and 29 in Tsafe local government areas of the State. He stated that among the victims were 33 male adults, 10 children and 25 women including pregnant and nursing mothers who have been in captivity for over three months. “The 97 kidnapped victims hailed from Magarya , Maradun, Gusau and Isah local government areas of Zamfara and Sokoto states Ayuba added The CP explained that following the extensive pressure mounted because of the ongoing military operation around the camp of the notorious suspected bandit’s leaders Bello Turji, who operates in Shinkafi, Zurmi and Birnin Magaji local government areas of the state led to the release of 68 captives. The Zamfara State Commissioner for Security and Home Affairs, Mammn Tsafe, who received the kidnapped victims on behalf of the State Governor Bello Mohammed Matawalle expressed gratitude to God for the release of the victims and promised to provide medical attention to them before reuniting with them with their families. One of the victims, who spoke with THISDAY in Hausa language, said N5 million were paid to their abductors before they freed them. THISDAY also gathered that the release of the 68 kidnapped victims by the notorious bandit’s leaders Bello Turji may not be unconnected with the letter which he had written to the Emir of Shinkafi seeking amnesty from the State government so that he and his commanders can drop their arms and evil acts.