•Urges era of take-a-bow-and-go in appointments be discarded •Malami calls for openness, transparency in spending Alex Enumah The Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo yesterday canvassed for the creation of a benchmark in the salaries of judicial officers as well as that of the legislators to put a permanent rest to the perennial disputes among the two arms of government. Osinbajo also remarked that the earnings of judicial officers should be such that they would be able to have “decent homes of their own” after service. He spoke at the 2022 Justice Sector Summit tagged: Devising Practical Solutions Towards Improved Performance, Enhanced Accountability and Independence in the Justice Sector, organised by the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) and some stakeholders. The vice president said the welfare conditions of the judicial officers must be strengthened to make them live above board and to also attract the best brains into the bench. He challenged the bar to use the summit to address the issue of long delay in the disposal of cases in the nation’s court, which he said goes a long way in determining how other nations see Nigerian and want to invest in the country. The VP faulted the way and manner appointees were being scrutinised, adding that the take-a-bow policy be discarded and that appointments should no longer be treated with kids’ gloves. According to him, such screening should be robust and thorough for the best to emerged. Meanwhile, responding to questions at the opening plenary, the Attorney General of the Federation (AGF) and Minister of Justice, Mr. Abubakar Malami, called for more transparency and openness in the administration of the budgets of both the Judiciary and Legislative arms of government. Malami said the judiciary had consistently lamented poor funding and yet no one could tell how the monies allocated to them were being expended. He, therefore, submitted that for the issue of inadequate funding to be addressed in the judiciary, there must be a system in place that will allow the financial books to be opened. “The starting point is transparency and accountability … let the books be opened,” he said. According to the AGF, even though the budgetary allocation of the judiciary was higher than that of the National Assembly, the lawmakers seemed to be better off than the judiciary. Therefore, he said there was need to know how much was provided and how it is applied. “The same way that the executive opens its books for public scrutiny, the same way the legislators and the judiciary should open theirs,” he stated. On the issue of appointment of judges, Malami advocated the need for a legislation that would remove all bottlenecks that take away merit in the process of selecting and appointing judicial officers. He maintained that the current guidelines used in selecting and appointing judges promote incompetence, adding that the consideration of federal character principle further robs the bench of merit when appointments were being made. Speaking on the financial autonomy for the judiciary, Malami recalled several efforts by the President Buhari’s administration to ensure that the judiciary was truly independent, citing Executive Order 10 among others, which he regretted was being challenged in court. He, however, called for consensus-building among the three arms of government to realise the independence of the judiciary. In his welcome address, the President of the Nigeria Bar Association (NBA), Mr. Olumide Akpata, noted that the declining state of the nation’s justice sector was the major reason for the convocation of the summit. “Today, I believe that our call to action must begin from our admission of the state of affairs of our administration of justice that we are thoroughly dissatisfied with. There is a convergence of opinion of both the Bar and the Bench that the Nigerian justice delivery system is not operating at its optimal best,” he said. Among the issues the NBA President said would be looked into at the summit, was the process of appointment into the bench of various courts in the country which, “must be manned by not just the best hands we can find but also by incorruptible minds.” He urged stakeholders to commit to statutory and constitutional reforms, institutional and funding reforms, and manpower reforms for the desired change to take place. “The lips service that we have paid to these reforms over the years must stop from today”, he said, while appealing to both the bar and bench to uproot every divisive tendency that is hampering the effectiveness of the justice sector in Nigeria.