Sylvester Idowu in Warri Leaders and elders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Delta Central Senatorial District have passed a vote of absolute confidence on the 2015 governorship candidate of the APC, Mr. Olorogun O’tega Emerhor. The leaders and elders under the aegis of Delta Central Emerhor Political Family Elders and Leaders Council (DCEPFELC) also described the defection of Mr. Cyril Ogodo and few members of the party to the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) as a fruitless and failed political voyage. In a communique issued after a meeting of the DCEPFELC in Ughelli, Delta State, the forum called on the APC stakeholders in the state to unite and form a strong force ahead of the 2023 general elections to ensure that the ruling PDP is chased out of power. The communiqué that was signed by over 500 members of the forum, including Mr. Orode M.O; Mr. Godwin Ohwoekevwo; Dr. Omene Edafe Wilson; Rev. Dr Isaac Unutame; Mr. Omene Solomon; Evangelist S.E Oteri; Mr. Roland Odjeni; Emanovwe Freeborn; Mr. Matthew Okoro; Mr. Adjarho Joseph; Mr. Oris Ohwerhi and Mr. Reuben Abarovwe, disclosed that Dr. Martins Ohwevwo has been elected as the chairman of the elders council. Ohwevwo said: “The decision of the leader to bring the forum into a close working relationship with the Deputy Senate President; Senator Ovie Omo Agege, was strongly affirmed as the desired route to strengthen the APC in Delta State. “The council called on all APC stakeholders to come together and bury their differences to enable the APC to achieve the desired goal of bringing good governance to Deltans while ensuring that PDP’s 24years reign of terror and ineptitude comes to an end. “The council reviewed the matter of its Chairman, Mr. Sylvester G.O. Kohwo, along with a few others who have decided to hobnob with the PDP. The council, thereafter, resolved to remove the chairman and expel him and those few members who are implicated with him. “The council, thereafter, proceeded to elect Dr. Martins Ohwevwo as the new Chairman of the council effective January 21, 2022. “The council called on all their members and all Delta APC members to be steadfast and remain focus towards 2023 general election when PDP will be chased out of the Government House,” the communique partly read. Meanwhile, Ohwevwo was presented to Emerhor as the new chairman of Delta Central Elders and Leaders Council of the Emerhor Political Family. Emerhor at a meeting attended by several leaders and elders of the party from all the local governments of Delta Central told APC chieftains in the state that the party remained united and strong with desire to work with all segments of the party to deliver the party in 2023. He specifically charged members of his political family to return to their various units and wards to recruit more Deltans into the party. The APC leader added that those who left the party never added value to the party during their stay in APC.