Blessing Ibunge in Port Harcourt Rivers State Governor, Mr. Nyesom Wike has said it was hypocritical for President Muhammadu Buhari to sign the 2022 budget recently passed by the National Assembly into law after declining to assent to the Electoral Act Amendment Bill. The governor said the speed at which the president signed the Appropriation Act, which he had said was impossible to implement, was curious and insensitive to the plight of ordinary Nigerians. Wike stated this yesterday, when he paid a New Year visit to Enugu State Governor, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi in his home town, Orba in Udenu Local Government Area of Enugu State. Wike, who argued that the All Progressives Congress (APC)-led federal government had failed Nigeria, urged the people of Enugu to speak out against the poor governance the country was experiencing. He further advised them to join forces with well-meaning Nigerians to salvage the country. He said: “Look at Mr. President the other day while he was signing the budget, he said the budget is un-implementable. But he went on and signed what is un-implementable. A budget that will determine the state of the economy, the progress of this nation, and the president knew this thing can’t work and he signed it. Then the Electoral Act, he said he will not sign it because direct primaries is too expensive. “What concern me with party primaries? What concerns the poor people with party primaries? The one that concerns poor man, business man, how to grow the economy, you signed it, knowing too well that it will not work.” To the people of Enugu State, Wike said: “You must join the rest of Nigerians. Nigeria is dying. Will you be here to see Nigeria die? Is it the kind of Nigeria that people like Nnamdi Azikiwe fought for? “A Nigeria that when you wake up, what you will hear is 20 people have died, 42 people have been kidnapped, 100 people have been abducted. Everyday death, death.” The Rivers State governor said he was in Enugu to felicitate with Ugwuanyi before the commencement of work in the new year in view of his brotherly love towards him. He described Ugwuanyi as one of the shining lights of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and admonished him to continue to remain firm, courageous and supportive of the PDP. The Governor who was conferred with a honorary traditional chieftaincy title of Agunechemba by the Chairman, Enugu State Council of Tradition Rulers, Lawrence Agubuzo, also urged the people of Enugu State to continue to stand by the governor to enable him deliver democratic dividends to them. In his remarks, Enugu State Governor said Governor Wike had distinguished himself as a bold and courageous leader, noting that he was proud of his leadership. Ugwuanyi described the visit as the signpost of the deepening relationship between the two states and commended the Enugu State Council of Traditional Rulers for conferring Governor Wike with a chieftaincy title. “Last year, I was in Rivers State on two occasions, on the Governor’s invitation to commission two major road projects. On each occasion. I left Rivers State with strong, positive impression of your commitment to project conception and quick delivery. “You have distinguished yourself as a visionary, bold and audacious leader, even when you have inspired trust and confidence in our democracy. You have fought for our great party, PDP and have given voice for the voiceless. You have been a defender of the defenseless. “This fraternal visit symbolises the deepening of the fellowship between the government and good people of the Treasure Base of the Nation and of course Eungu State,” he added.