Arising from their two-day conference in Abuja yesterday, the All Progressives Congress (APC) women from the 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), have stated that there is an urgent need for a comprehensive review of the constitution of the Party to give a backing to the demands and resolutions unanimously adopted at the conference as a clear roadmap for action towards galvanizing women in the Party. This was contained in the communique read by the Minister of State, FCT, Hajiya Ramatu Tijani Aliyu on behalf of the women, adopted by the Deputy Chief Whip of the Federal house of Representatives, Hon Nkeiruka Onyejeocha and Senator Florence Ita Giwa, with a call to all stakeholders of the Party to support the implementation of the resolutions. Part of the adopted resolutions include the need for effective representation of women in the Party Board of Trustees and the creation of Aspirants’ Forum, where women could meet to share ideas, leverage resources and speak with one voice. The women, who applauded the leadership roles of the incumbent National Women Leader, Hon Stella Okotete, also recognised the need for a Mentorship Committee to help up-and- coming aspirants especially the young ones, to develop the courage and audacity to step up to the plate of political contests. Other demands include the creation progressive Women Trust Fund because of the critical role that money plays in politics in the country. “ Consequently, many women may not even have the money to pay the required registration fees. A Trust Fund would enable us extend resource to women aspirants who have great potentials but lack the enabling financial resources. “There is need to review the Party constitution to enshrine affirmative action provisions in the grand rules of the Party and ensure . We should set up lobby groups comprising experienced and reputable women personalities to be able to negotiate and canvas on issue affecting women, especially their inclusion at levels of party hierarchy and in governance. “We request for the emergence of not less than 35 per cent of the of elective and appointive positions of governance. Time has come for the inclusion of more women in the National Working Committee (NWC) of the Party. There should be an increase in the membership of women in the BOT as stated above, party caucuses as well as the NEC. These means that the bodies may need to be expanded to include women.