Adedayo Akinwale in Abuja and Sylvester Idowu in Warri As Nigerians continue pay tribute to the late head of the Interim National Government (ING), Chief Ernest Shonekan, who died on Tuesday, the leadership of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has said he saved Nigeria from conflict. Similarly, the governors of Lagos and Delta states, Babajide Sanwo-Olu and Ifeanyi Okowa, respectively, joined other Nigerians to pay tribute to the late boardroom guru. Shonekan headed the interim government formed following the annulment of the June 12, 1993 presidential election. National Secretary, Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) of the APC, Senator John Akpanudoedehe, in a statement yesterday, expressed sadness over Shonekan’s death. Akpanudoedehe stated, “I received with a deep sense of sadness, news of the passing of a one-time Head of the Nigerian Interim National Government (ING); the Abese of Egbaland; and my late father’s colleague, H.E. Chief (Dr.) Ernest Shonekan, GCFR, CBE. “Late Shonekan’s credentials as a committed nationalist inspired his choice as a worthy intermediary to serve to douse the tension at the time, when Nigeria was at a crossroads, and almost on the brink of conflict. “I recall with nostalgia my father’s views about late Chief Shonekan’s broad-mindedness, candid views, and wealth of international business and political connections.” Akpanudoedehe also recalled Shonekan’s passion for the Nigerian Economic Summit Group, which he founded as an advocacy group and think-tank for private sector led-development of Nigeria’s economy, saying Nigeria, and indeed, Africa, have lost a great elder statesman. Sanwo-Olu described Shonekan as a renowned technocrat, seasoned administrator and passionate leader, who served his country meritoriously as a public servant during his short tenure as number one citizen in Nigeria. He said the departed elder statesman did his best for the country in contributing to the growth and development of Nigeria during his tenure as Head of the Interim National Government. Sanwo-Olu, in a condolence message by his Chief Press Secretary, Gboyega Akosile, praised Shonekan’s contribution to the economy of Nigeria as boardroom guru and employer of labour, especially, during his tenure as Chairman and Managing Director of the United Africa Company (UAC). He commiserated with Ogun State Governor Dapo Abiodun and the people of the state, especially, indigenes of Abeokuta, on the demise of their illustrious son and elder statesman. “On behalf of the government and people of Lagos State, I want to express my sincere and heartfelt condolences to the family, friends and associates of Chief Ernest Shonekan,” Sanwo-Olu stated. “I pray that God will grant him eternal rest and give his immediate family, friends, associates and the people of Ogun State, the fortitude to bear the irreparable loss,” he added. Okowa, in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Olisa Ifeajika, also commiserated with the Alake of Egbaland over the loss of the Egba chief and great boardroom player, recalling that the late head of state founded Nigerian Economic Summit Group in 1994. He said Nigerians would miss the deceased’s regular counselling on national issues and his mediations for peaceful co-existence. “On behalf of my family, the government and people of Delta, I join the entire nation and the people of Ogun State to mourn the passing of former Head of Interim National Government, Chief Ernest Shonekan,” Okowa said. He added, “Chief Shonekan worked assiduously to improve the economy and livelihood of many poor and underprivileged Nigerians in the short period he served as Head of State. “As a senior lawyer and foremost boardroom professional, Chief Shonekan was a legendary leader in public and private sectors, where he dedicated his life to the service of our nation in several capacities. “His unwavering commitment to the unity of Nigeria had been a major encouragement to many governments, and I recall the personal sacrifices he made in helping to sustain governance in the twilight of Gen. Ibrahim Babangida’s regime. “As a country, we will miss his wise counsel on national issues and peaceful co-existence, especially, now that the nation is largely divided on political, ethnic and religious lines.”