Alex Enumah in Abuja The Federal Ministry of Justice and the Administration of Criminal Justice Monitoring Committee (ACJMC) has commenced mass sensitisation campaign to Police Divisional Offices in the country, on the need to comply with the provisions of the Administration of Justice Act, (ACJA) 2015. The campaign led by Secretary of the monitoring committee, Mr. Sulaiman Dawodu, paid visit to six different Divisional Police Offices in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), were copies of the ACJA, 2015 as well as sleeping materials were distributed. Dawodu, in his remarks during the visits observed that the goals of the ACJA, would only be realised when it was well understood and implemented by relevant stakeholders, adding that the police play a crucial role in justice dispensation in the country. According to the secretary, “ACJA provides minimum standards that the Police must comply with in handling suspects and detainees in custody.” Apart from ensuring a good, conducive environment for the investigation of suspects and detainees, Dawodu stressed that Police Divisions are “expected to ensure that no detainee sleeps on the floor.” While noting that the law on one hand presumed a suspect innocent until proven otherwise hence suspects should be treated as humans, Dawodu, added that the nature of treatment given to detainees would go a long way in determining their level of cooperation or violence. He expressed hope that the copies of the ACJA Law would be useful especially to the Divisional Officers and others in the Division while handling suspects and detainees in their custody. Responding, the various DPOs, thanked the ACJMC for the visit and the gift items, adding that, “it will go a long way in assisting us to know the new law and put them into consideration in the process of investigation”. They also commended the committee for providing sleeping materials for detainees in custody, adding that it would further improve the welfare of those in custody and in turn enhance the work of the Police.