Desiring to ensure more young people invest in housing, a real estate management company, Shanghai City Estate has offered to provide shelter for the middle and low income earners. Speaking to The Newsmen at the official presentation of its End of the year Gifts to its top brand ambassador, Founder Ranel Universal Ltd Owners of Shanghai City Estate Mr. Udeh Chinedu Raphael said that housing deficit in the country cannot be totally achieved by the private sector alone going by the population of over a 200 million people, “it will take a collaborative effort of the private and public sectors to achieve this in the housing Sector. “In the coming years, we look forward to Renel Universal Ltd collaborating with government institutions to meet up with housing deficit because it is a huge problem.” He further said: “We are here for those thinking of climbing the property ladder even the lower class in our society, who do not dream owning a property. So, if the government gives the private sector an enabling environment by providing land and structures then it is easier for the private sector to provide housing for this cadre that has been neglected in the industry. “At the moment I can see that the government is doing quite well in terms of documentation and providing enabling environment; road constructions, electricity. But we all know they can do more by making it easy for the private sector to access landed properties along with its processes,” Mr. Udeh added. “It is easier to get Nigerians in diaspora to get properties here. We have made it affordable for the middle class to tap into owning their property. There is a fast development going on in the Real Estate Market in Anambra State and with the current government working in making the state a smart city, the best time for anyone to consider investing is now.” He stressed that the choice of Rewarding its ambassador,Agents and Marketers is to drive sales and ensure credibility. this would encourage more people in his age bracket to look into investing in property. “The affordability for me is awesome which shows that anybody can own a property in Anambra State. I think it’s every human beings’ dream to own a house in Anambra State now.” Mr Udeh who used this opportunity to encourage other who has been wanting to join the Shanghai City Estate Team as a Marketer or any part of the company’s outfit should do so as more gift items would be distributed to wonderful and outstanding staffs from next year 2022.. The Shanghai City Estate remains one of the fastest selling Estate in Anambra State and has recorded massive growth with this short period of time and it is my little way of saying thank you to our team members Says Udeh Chinedu.