George Okoh The Minister for Power, Mr. Abubakar Aliyu, has blamed the poor power generation and distribution in the country on continuous collapse of transmission and distribution lines. Aliyu said this yesterday in Makurdi during a courtesy call on the Governor of Benue State, Mr. Samuel Ortom. He assured that federal government is working assiduously to boost power generation and transmission. He explained that at the moment the country has an installed capacity of 13,000 but have evacuated only 5,000 megawatt with the National Gird located in Osogbo, Osun State. “Power is one area that has been receiving attention of this government. Know that government owns 40 percent of the distribution. The national grid is controlled from Osogbo and must receive enough energy to transmit power. “Government has set out to rehabilitate the transmission grid. We are beginning to see result. Our national transmission has not increase from 5,000 megawatt but it has not dropped. We use to have more than 15 to 17 system collapse in the past but only experienced two (2) in 2021. “We will see increase this year 2022. It is a year of delivery. The Yandev to Makurdi transmission line will be completed within 6 months,” he assured. Also, commenting on the Presidential Power Initiative (PPI), he said it is done in partnership with German Government driven by Special Purpose Vehicle with Minister of Finance as its board Chairman. He said that government has ordered 10 power transformers to be deployed all over the country to boost electricity in the country as well as mobile substations across the country, adding that they are intervening in 175 green and brown substations in the country. The minister, who was accompanied by the Minister for State, Power, Mr. Goddy Agba, explained that they are in the State to inspect ongoing upgrading of joint sub stations from Kashibilla in Taraba where there is a dam and power plant to Yandev in Gboko local government area of Benue State which is 240 double circuit that has been completed and already giving power to Takum, Wukari nd its environs. “The project power is 40 megawatt. There are technical issues we are addressing. We have been experiencing loss as the electricity reaches Yandev, the quality is unreliable. It is too low. “The Phase 2 is over 40 per cent completion and it is going to link Yandev- Makurdi as well as construction of sub switching stations in Zaki Biam, Buruku, Aliade and Anyiim. We have reached over 40 per cent completion. We are here to ensure quick completion of these projects for the benefit of the Benue people. Governor Samuel Ortom commended the President Muhammadu Buhari for improving on power distribution in the country. “The power ministry is committed to execution of projects under their purview. I can attest to the fact that there is an improvement to what we had seen in the past as far as power generation and distribution is concerned. I commend the President for this,” Ortom said.