With its belief that education is the bedrock of any society, Dowen College, Lagos, has resolved to ensure that it raises highly intellectual men and women with the best values in its planned new chapter, “who will positively develop and transform our country and their generation. We hope to do this with Gods’ help and everyone’s support.  God bless you all.” This new chapter, according to the Board of Governor (BoG),  promises to be one of collective re-dedication to excellence, which the students will always be very proud of their school, and the community should also be assured of the school best intentions at all times. The Board of Governors of the school has also decided to bring in external consultants to work with the management of the school over the next few months to ensure that high standards and best practices are upheld and implemented where they are needed, adding: “They will assess the policies, processes and practices of the school and work to reassure our stakeholders of the quality and standards of education we provide.” More significantly, the founding members of the Board of Governors, including the Founder and Chairman of the Board, Dr. O. Olumide Phillips, who have worked tirelessly over the years to develop outstanding children both in and out of the school, said he has chosen to retire and pass the baton of change to a new generation of seasoned professionals who will run with the vision, leadership passion, commitment and values they have worked rigorously to establish in the school. In a statement issued by Tomi Borisade for Board of Governors, the Board said over the past 24 years, “Dowen College Lagos has been able to build a strong exemplary educational institution with high moral values and a culture of enviable track record. A few weeks ago, the school experienced the unfortunate loss of a promising young student Slyvester Oromoni. “May his soul rest in perfect peace and may God grant the Oromoni family the fortitude to bear this irreparable loss. We pray we will never experience such an unfortunate incident in our community again. Slyvester’s demise has left all of us at Dowen College deeply saddened. Our students, staff and community have been affected by the news surrounding his passing and we find ourselves navigating unchartered waters. The Dowen College Family said  it had to rethink how best to reassure the public of its best intentions and how the interest of all parties can best be served in sustaining and growing the good and privileged legacy of the school. According to the statement, We have worked to enhance our safeguard, monitor processes and policies to ensure better oversight functions within the school. We are also reviewing our policies with our parents, staff and students to ensure strict compliance and best practices are adhered to going forward. “As we review our processes, the school authority will not hesitate to relieve anyone responsible for administrative lapses in the duties of their positions. We are keen on ensuring that this type of situation never arises again. “This will also enhance communication and effectiveness with the Parents Teachers Forum. Their good works cannot be allowed to go in vain and they are keen to ensure that Dowen College stands shoulder to shoulder with the best schools both in and out of the country. “We have been working with the Lagos State Ministry of Education and taken on board their guidance and suggestions with regard to various areas of improvement. We will implement infrastructural changes to the hostels and school facilities to enhance safety and oversight within the school premises.”