James Sowole The Ogun State Police Command has arrested four young boys for alleged involvement in ritual killing. The command disclosed this in a statement by its Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Abimbola Oyeyemi yesterday. The statement said the suspects – Wariz Oladehinde (17), Abdul Gafar Lukman (19) and Mustakeem Balogun (20) – were all arrested following information received at Adatan Police Division from the head of the community security guard. According to the command, the community security guard claimed that the suspects were seen burning something suspected to be human head in a local pot. “Upon the information, the Divisional Police Officer (DPO), Abiodun Salau, quickly led his detectives to the scene, where the three suspects were arrested,” the command said in its statement. It added that the fourth suspect, Soiu Majekodunmi, who happened to be the boyfriend of the murdered girl, was later arrested after he initially fled. Soliu was said to be 18 years old. Upon interrogation, the command disclosed that the arrested suspects confessed that what they were burning in the local pot is the head of the girlfriend of one of them “They confessed further that the girl who was simply identified as Rofiat was lured by her boyfriend to where she was murdered by four of them, after which they cut off her head and packed the remains in a sack, and dumped it in an old building. “They subsequently led policemen to the building, where the dismembered body was recovered and deposited at the general hospital mortuary for autopsy. The short cutlass and a knife used in cutting off the deceased head were also recovered,” the command further disclosed. Responding to the incident, the Commissioner of Police, Lanre Bankole described the action of the suspects as the height of callousness. The police chief, therefore, ordered the immediate transfer of the suspects to homicide section of the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department for discreet investigation with the view to arraign them in court as soon as possible.