Laleye Dipo in Minna The Abuja Electricity Distribution Company’s (AEDC) 33kva substation in Minna, Niger State, has been gutted by fire for the second time within two months. The incident occurred in the early hours of Sunday. The cause of the fire incident is not yet known but independent investigations by THISDAY showed that the outbreak could have been caused by the obsolete nature of the equipment. It was gathered that no action was taken to replace the obsolete equipment despite several complaints to the authorities of the AEDC headquarters in Abuja for their replacement as some of these equipment were installed more than 25 years ago. Several parts of Minna were without electricity supply at the time of filing this report due to the fire incident. Areas without electricity supply include Tunga, Farm Centre, M I Wushishi housing estate, David Mark Road, Maitumbi, Gurusu,, Emir of Minnas’ Palace, Anguwan sarkin and Anguwan Daji. Others are Sabon Gari, Limawa, Morris fertilizer, Police Barracks, Keteren Gwari, Airport Quarters and the Commissioners Quarters. The management of the AEDC confirmed the fire incident yesterday. It said: “There was another fire incident which occurred this morning at 33kv power House injection substation, which damaged our equipment. “However, our team of engineers is working seriously to address the problem. “We regret any inconvenience that this may have caused our customers at this period,” It also promised to ensure that normal supply of electricity is restored as soon the problem is resolved. Meanwhile an estate owned by the Ijebu Community in Minna was also burnt on Sunday. The estate is located at Gidan Mangoro area in the Bosso Local Government Area of the state. The fire reportedly started from an electric pole that supplies electricity to the estate. One of the Ijebu Community Leaders, Mr. Adegbenga Lawal, confirmed the incident, adding that everything in the flats was burnt to ashes. The situation, according to Lawal, was made more serious by the absence of occupants of flats who had traveled for Christmas and New Year celebration. He said that the only family left in the estate, a father and two of his children, came out with only their under wears.