High Chief Abiola Ogundokun is not a stranger to Nigeria’s political setting. The Osun State-born octogenarian is an old horse in the system, having been in the game for over four decades and still strong. He is definitely not a pushover; he knows his onions in the nation’s political climate and he has a network of friends that cuts across all walks of life. Even though he is not occupying any political post, he is a force to be reckoned with in the country as he is well connected and commands lots of influence. Little wonder, his residences in Lagos, Abuja, Ibadan and his hometown in Iwo are a Mecca of sorts, as many politicians, as well as aspiring politicians, consult him to drink from his fountain of political knowledge and experiences. However, what has been underreported about the political titan is his milk of kindness. Society Watch gathered that he has been at the forefront of philanthropy for so many years and many have benefited immensely from this. A source revealed that he reaches out to those in need through his Foundation
The man, who was also a chieftain of the defunct National Party of Nigeria (NPN) started the Foundation in 1976 when he was the councillor in Ward 1, Iwo Local Government of the old Oyo and has contributed meaningfully to the education and political lives of many people. The annual event has catered for millions of people in the past as still counting. The Foundation built the administrative building of Iwo East LCDA and took up the extension of the Iwo Central Mosque. He also defrays the hospital bills of some patients and sponsors many on pilgrimage to Mecca and contributes to the building of Iwo palace. According to Ogundokun, some politicians in the zone rose to high positions through nominations from the Foundation
Recently, the Foundation feted over 200 less privileged in Iwo, Osun. The empowerment was witnessed by many eminent personalities across the state, including the State Governor, Gboyega Oyetola, who was represented by his Director-General, Campaign Organisation Israel Famurewa, among others. Ogundokun was a pioneer staff of Western Nigeria Broadcasting Service (WNBS). He later worked in the New Nigerian Newspapers. He joined politics as a Youth Leader of the New Nigerian Democratic Party. He later contested and got elected as a Councillor in Iwo Local Government in 1976 before becoming a member of the Constituent Assembly in 1978. In 1979, he became the National Publicity Secretary of the ruling NPN and was appointed a member of the Board of Daily Times Newspapers. At the advent of the third republic, he was a member of the Social Democratic Party (SDP). But when the Republic was truncated by the late General Sani Abacha, he again became a member of the Constitution Review Committee. In 1999, he joined the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and was a member of the Osun State tactical committee that midwifed the election of Prince Olagunsoye Oyinlola as Governor in 2003 before he quit partisan politics in 2010 when Rauf Aregbesola emerged as Governor. He was drawn back into the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) as a result of the needed experience that he has acquired over years by some elite.