Adibe Emenyonu Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has tasked traditional rulers in Nigeria to entrench religious and ethnic tolerance in their domains to foster peace and unity in the country. Osinbajo gave the charge yesterday in Auchi, Etsako West Local Government Area of Edo State at the conferment of chieftaincy title of Oduma (Lion) of Auchi on the Minister of State for Budget and National Planning, Prince Clem Agba by the Otaru of Auchi, His Royal Highness, Alhaji Aliru Momoh, Ikelebe III. The vice president noted that he did his compulsory National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) in Auchi in 1979, which symbolises what Nigeria should be by accommodating all irrespective of ethnic or religious background. He cited the case of Agba, who is from Uzanu in Etsako East but found a home in Auchi at the age of two. He said: “The Auchi Kingdom has its rich and special history and a celebrated innovation and enterprise of its sons and daughters has brought development and prominence to this kingdom and Edo State. It is remarkable and worthy of praise that in the great Auchi Kingdom adherence of both major religions in Nigeria – Islam and Christianity have lived and continued to live harmoniously together for centuries, sharing a common bond as members of this community and even of the same biological families. “Auchi is therefore in a real sense, not just the microcosm of Nigeria, but also an exemplification of our finest values of mutuality and community. “Our country needs men and women who see and understand that our ethnic diversities are not a point of difference – men and women who understand that all people regardless of ethnicity and faith deserve to be treated equally fairly and justly and this is where the significance of the traditional institution comes to be because they are regarded and rightly so, as the custodians of these values and embodied and the highest and noblest ideals of the people,” Osinbajo explained. On his part, the minister said the conferment was an appreciation and encouragement for him to continue to offer more services to humanity. He commended the Edo State Government for continuing 10 erosion control programmes across the state, which he said were started when he was the Edo Commissioner for Environment under the administration of Comrade Adams Oshiomhole. The minister appealed that the Benin Water Storm Project, which they also started should not be abandoned. Among dignitaries at the colourful event were the Minister of Finance Budget and National Planning, Mrs Zainab Ahmed; her Transportation counterpart, Mr Rotimi Amaechi; Minister of State for Labour and Employment, Mr Festus Keyamo; Minister of State for Power, Mr Abubakar Aliyu; and the Minister of Youths and Sports, Mr Sunday Dare. Also in attendance were the former National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and former governor of the state, Oshiomhole; and the Deputy Governor of Edo State, Comrade Philip Shaibu who represented the state governor. Some traditional rulers led by the representative of the Oba of Benin also attended the event.