Hammed Shittu in Ilorin Kwara State Governor, Alhaji AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq, has reassured the residents of the state that the present administration will continue to focus on projects and programmes that will boost inclusive growth, reduce poverty, and create a better environment for sustainable job opportunities in the state. AbdulRazaq in a New Year statement issued in Ilorin at the weekend signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Rafiu Ajakaye, however, said: “The administration ‘Budget of Sustained Reformation for Inclusive Growth’ has been designed to double down on the achievements and reforms in education sector, health care, workers’ welfare, water supply, ease of doing business, safety net for the poor, access roads within the metropolis and across the state, and improved investments and partnership with the security agencies, civic community, and the traditional institutions to guarantee safety of lives and property.” He said: “At the dawn of 2022, I call on our people to continue to support the administration’s policies and programmes to place Kwara State on the path of sustainable growth. “Our major selling point has been peace and tranquility, and I urge that we should continue to relate with one another as one people bound by a common destiny under God. “This year, as always, let us watch over one another and work for a greater Kwara State and Nigeria, irrespective of our differences.” Also, the Speaker of the state House of Assembly, Rt. Hon Yakubu Danladi-Salihu, has said the Assembly would continue to pay keen attention to and advance legislation that would further improve the well-being of Kwarans and make life more bearable for them. Danladi-Salihu, who stated this in his new year message, congratulated Nigerians and Kwarans in particular for witnessing 2022. He praised the resilience of Nigerians in the face of daunting challenges, especially insecurity and COVID-19, urging them to keep their hope alive for a brighter and better 2022. Danladi-Salihu noted that the focus of the government is meant to drive interest on delivering to the citizens; security of lives and property, healthy and improved living condition, employment opportunity, infrastructure and quality education. He said: “I heartily congratulate Nigerians and indeed my fellow Kwarans as we begin the year 2022; the new year presents us with a new opportunity to build on successes we recorded in 2021 and see where we need to amend or adjust in our quest to make life more meaningful for our people as legislators. “No doubt, challenges of security and COVID-19, which greatly affected our economy equally affected some of the plans, policies, and programmes of the government, but with the total commitment and deliberate determination, some important feats were recorded, especially in the area of infrastructure and the welfare of the citizenry. “I, therefore, urge everyone to continue to cooperate and support the government of Governor AbdulRazaq as he is focused to deliver more dividends of democracy to Kwarans. On behalf of my colleagues, I wish you a happy new year and many happy returns.”