Until recently, Chief Ramon Adegoke Adedoyin, founder of the Oduduwa University, Ile-Ife, Osun State, commanded a lot of respect. The renowned educationist is also a socialite, who is very popular in Ile-Ife, where he hails from, as well as other states across the South-west part of the country. If Adegoke, who has now been suspended as the Maaye of Ile-Ife, is not talking about his various institutions of learning, which includes a polytechnic, he is making profound contributions to the development of the education sector in the country, and also trying to lift the needy around him. Strangely, not a few see him as someone who loves to hug the limelight and remain in the news always. But sadly, he has been in the news for the wrong reason in the past months, a development he never bargained for. For him, the journey on this road of infamy began on November 5, 2021, when the news of his alleged involvement in the murder of Timothy Adegoke, a post-graduate student of the Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU), Ile Ife, who had lodged in his hotel, Hilton Hotel, Ile-Ife broke late last year. In the wake of the uproar that followed the alleged dastardly act, Adedoyin and six of his staff were arrested by the Osun State Police Command for investigation. A source revealed that some of his friends initially did not appreciate the enormity of the criminal charges against him, believing that they could help him out and get him off the hook. ‘’At the outset of the trial, he had wrongfully thought that he could escape justice owing to his influence in the society. They stood up for him and also vouched that the Ife Prince is not capable of hurting a fly. They threw their weight behind him, pressed the necessary boutons and ran from pillar to post so he could escape the wrath of the law. But little did they envisage that the matter would go beyond their wildest expectations,” the source disclosed. The more he tries to wriggle out of the case, the more he gets entangled; while all his friends have deserted him and have since been left in the cold.