Hammed Shittu in Ilorin A retired Deputy Contrompler General of Nigeria Customs, Mr. Zarma M. B, who was kidnapped at his farm in Oke Jia, around Egbejila in Asa Local Government Council Area of Kwara State last week Thursday has regained freedom from his abductors. THISDAY checks revealed that the retired senior customs officer was said to have been released by his abductors after the family paid ransom for his release. The retired senior customs officer was abducted at his farm by seven suspected abductors who stormed his farm with AK47 and shoot sporadically before he was taken away through the bush linked to Ogele village, Pampo village, Arowosaye village and the main tarred road linked to Afon village in Asa LGA of the state. During the incident it was learnt that, his car was riddled with bullets. The two security details of the retired senior custom officer were arrested and detained at the state police command for interrogation. Since then, the security agencies in the state have swung into action so as to free the retired senior custom officer. However, on Monday around 6pm, reprieve came to the retired senior custom officer as his abductors released him. He was dropped and picked up inside a forest along Ilorin-Ogbomosho Expressway It was gathered that, he was said to be recuperating in a private hospital from experience suffered from the abduction. Although, it was not clear how much was eventually paid as ransom, the source said the abductors had initially demanded N10 million which was later negotiated to N6 million. A source close to the family told our correspondent that, “the abductors have released the retired senior custom officer after the family had paid ransom to the abductors.” The family, however, commended the security agencies in the state for rising up to the occasion. Speaking on the development, state police command Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Ajayi Okasanmi,who confirmed that the farmer had been released, however, said that he needed to make contacts before he could give details.