Victor Ogunje in Ado Ekiti In a bid to checkmate kidnappings, killings and other crimes in Ekiti State, the state Governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, yesterday urged the newly inaugurated chairmen and vice-chairpersons of the 16 local government areas and 19 Local Council Development Areas (LCDAs) to place high premium on the security of lives and property. The inauguration followed their victory at the December 4, 2021, council poll. Speaking during the ceremony held at the Adetiloye Hall in Ado Ekiti, Fayemi charged them to prioritise the security and welfare of the Ekiti people above their personal interest, and manage the election year well by averting crisis and violence within and outside their domain. The governor, who encouraged them to devise people-oriented projects and programmes that would improve and have positive impact on the people, urged them to work with relevant agencies and ministries to key into his administration programmes and projects designed to bring about rural and community development in the state. He told the new council bosses to devise mechanism that would improve internally generating revenue of their councils and ensure blockage of leakages, enshrine accountability in revenue generating process as well as work hand-in-hand with the state Internal Revenue Services to promote transparency. In terms of effective administration, the governor advised the new council bosses to familiarise themselves with the local government administration laws and local government service commission laws of Ekiti State in order to guide them on the operational activities required of them at the council. According to him, “You should see your election and inauguration as a call to service; public service is noble and those who have undertaken to serve with the passion and selflessness have always ended up being on the right side of history and have succeeded in engraving themselves in the heart of the people. “Your coming at this moment is very officious because there are many project captured in the 2022 budget that are designed to directly impact on rural dwellers and communities, and as a government, we are committed to rural and community development, which is part of the five pillars of this administration. “I urged you to work with relevant agencies and ministries to key into government programmes and projects designed to make life better for our people. “You should be conscious of the prevailing financial situation in the country and the need to boost your internally generated revenue to augment your allocation. One priority that your performance would be measured by apart from basic education, primary health and rural roads, is the generation of internal revenues. You must work closely with the state Internal Revenue Service on this. “You should place the security and welfare of your people at the front burner; ensure that your domain is secure at all times and manage the electioneering processes well enough to avert crisis in and around your domain. You must hold security council meeting regularly and coordinate effectively with the security chiefs in your own LGA or LCDA.” The Chairman Efon LGA, Olabode Olatunji, who responded on behalf of the new chairpersons, assured the Ekiti people of their readiness to usher in massive development at the grassroots level as well as intensified efforts to improve IGR at the council levels. He commended the governor for restoring sanity and virtues to governance and for creating LCDAs to bring government closer to the people, increase participation and make governance inclusive. Also, the Chairman of Local Government and Rural Development, Prof Adio Folayan, said the inauguration of the chairpersons would make the newly created 19 LCDA officially functional.