 Juliet Akoje, Abuja The House of Representatives has mandated the Inspector General of Police (IG),Usman Alkali Baba, to investigate kidnap of the traditional rulers in Plateau State and report back to the House committee on Police Affairs within two weeks. Its also mandated the National Veterinary Institute (NVRI) and National Institute for Policy and Strategic Studies (NIPSS) around Jos South LGA to install street lights within their surroundings with surveillance camera’s seeing that it is around their institutions that most kidnapping usually take place. The green chambers consequently mandated the IG to equip the Community Police with Walkie Talkie radio to enhance communication amongst Community Police Officials to aide rescue operations amongst themselves. These resolution followed the adoption of a motion under matters of urgent national importance raised by Hon. Bagos Dachung on the high rate of kidnapping in Jos South in Plateau State during the plenary session yesterday. According to Dachung, the issue of insecurity, kidnapping and payment of huge ransom to secure the release of victims has become a nightmare in the society and that the issue of kidnapping is on the alarming rise in Plateau State particularly, Jos South and Jos East Federal Constituency. He noted that on Sunday the 16th January, 2022, at about 8pm the paramount ruler, the Gwom Rwei of Vwang Da Balak was abducted while driving home around the National Institute for Policy and Strategic Studies in K.Vom community while driving home and that he is now the second traditional ruler kidnapped in Plateau State within two months. “The issues of kidnapping has become a day to day routine with the kidnappers placing a huge demand of ransom on family, friends and communities of their victims in order to secure the release the said victims,”he said. He further noted that in this digital era where tracking ought to be made easier due to the synchronizing of National Identity Number with phone number, the perpetrators of the inhumane act continue to communicate with victims’ family via phone yet go untraceable and free. “unfortunately, both traditional rulers who are custodians of the people and the citizens are new target of kidnappers” In another development, the House of Representatives has urged the Federal Roads Maintenance Agency (FERMA) to commence immediate rehabilitation of the Saminaka–Magama–Gumau Highway to prevent further deterioration. This resolution was sequel to the adoption of a motion moved by Hon. Muda Lawal Umar on the urgent Need to Rehabilitate the Saminaka–Magama–Gumau Highway on Wednesday during plenary session. Umar noted that the 91km Saminaka–Magama–Gumau road links Kaduna State, Bauchi State and other States within the North East Zone as it facilitates the transportation of farm produce as well as other products and services among Kaduna, Jos, Bauchi, Abuja and other States of the country. He raised a concern that due to the current dilapidated state of the road, commuters conveying goods and farm produce are robbed and kidnapped every week, sometimes resulting in the death of innocent persons and loss of properties. According to Umar, the deplorable condition of the road has caused untold hardships for the people who rely on it for transportation of their goods and other services as it has disrupted their daily economic activities. “If nothing is done urgently, to rehabilitate the road, it would continue to pose threat to the lives of commuters, thereby hampering agricultural and economic activities in the area and the nation at large” However, the House has mandated its Committee on FERMA to ensure compliance.