Seriki Adinoyi in Jos Youths operating under the aegis of Plateau Regeneration Group, yesterday endorsed an illustrious son of Plateau and University don, Mr. Ishaya David Lalu for Mangu/Bokkos Federal House of Representatives seat on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the forthcoming general elections. In a statement jointly signed by the chairman of the group, Mr. Panshak Joel and secretary, Mr. Emmanuel Alkali, the group explained that the call became necessary based on the track record of Lalu, whom they described as a man that has the interest of the people at heart. They also described Lalu as a grassroots politician and seasoned administrator. The statement reads; “We want to commend Honourable David Lalu for always keeping in touch with the people at the grassroot and for his massive empowerment programmes, and urge him to contest for the Mangu/Bokkos House of Representatives, seat come 2023. “The call become necessary because right now what the Mangu /Bokkos Federal constituency needs is a pragmatic and realistic grassroots politician that feels the pains, yearnings and aspirations of all in the constituency. “We need a politician that will give quality and robust representation that will ensure dividends of democracy, which Lalu represents and stands for .” “We call on members of the group to give their unflinching support to Hon David Lalu if he decides to contest for the elected position. “We are ready to go to the length and breadth of Mangu/Bokkos Federal constituency to ensure that Lalu emerges as our flag bearer in our party, the APC as well as win the general elections come 2023.” The group further said Lalu is a credible candidate with a clear vision of all inclusive government who will carry everybody along, irrespective of their tribes. They urged all its members to rally round Lalu as he has been proven to be a man of integrity and deserves the support of not only the group but the entire people of Mangu/Bokkos, and Plateau state as a whole.