Segun Awofadeji in Bauchi The Artistic Director and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the National Troupe of Nigeria (NTN), Mallam Ahmed Mohammed Ahmed, has been honoured by the Bauchi State Association for Youth and Development Association (BAYD). The honour was accorded him over the weekend by the BAYD with an ‘Award of Excellence’ for his selfless service and association with youth development across the country. Presenting the award on behalf of the association in Bauchi, the patron of BAYD, Alhaji Shehu Sanin Mallam, said the choice of the awardee by the association was a clear testimony on how he has been impacting positively in the lives of people around him. According to him, “We have all listened to the testimonies of his friends and colleagues on the kind of person Ahmed is. All the speakers have one great thing to say about the awardee. “Before today, I have never met the awardee, but his good work and passion for development in his immediate environment and beyond have preceded him. “If what we heard from his colleagues, friends and associates today are anything to go by, then the likes of Ahmed are those who should be encouraged to contest for elective positions in our society. Because I honestly believe that we will have quality representation that will add value to our people.” Mallam, meanwhile, congratulated the awardee for being honoured by the association, and also wished him well in his new assignment as the artistic director and chief executive officer of the National Troupe of Nigeria. In his remarks shortly after being presented with the award, Ahmed thanked Allah for the honour and also appreciated the youth association for finding him worthy of the recognition. While appreciating the crowd that graced the occasion, Ahmed appealed to privileged Nigerians to engage the youths in a meaningful enterprise, with a view to disabusing their minds from social vices that have become a source of concern to both the government and society at large. He noted that the federal government is doing so much in an effort to engage Nigerian youths in a productive venture, adding that such can be seen in the several components of the Social Investment Programme.