The National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) has approved a herbal drug that was produced by Afe Babalola University, Ado-Ekiti (ABUAD) for the treatment of COVID-19. The founder of the University, Chief Afe Babalola disclosed this yesterday, in Ado-Ekiti, Ekiti State, at a ceremony commemorating the 12th anniversary of the establishment of ABUAD. According to him, the drug had been tested on 19 COVID-19 patients and all recovered. He said the number of those cured by the drug had been on the increase since the drug was approved. He said the research department of the university over the years had made meaningful discoveries aimed at solving the socio-economic problems of the country. Babalola, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN) and Educationist, spoke on Tuesday in Ado-Ekiti, the Ekiti state capital, at a ceremony commemorating the 12th anniversary of the establishment of ABUAD. The Senior Advocate of Nigeria explained: “I am happy that I conceived this university 12 years ago and since then, we have been going from strength to strength, making exploits in all our endeavors. Our vision is to make this place a great institution in the university education in the country in teaching, research and community service. “I can confirm to you today that our herbal drug produced through extensive research by our team of researchers has healed about 19 patients who contracted covid-19 pandemic. They were healed perfectly less than five days of usage, which tells you the level of our research in ABUAD.” Commenting on the 2023 general elections, he said conducting the election with the present 1999 constitution could lead to the collapse of the nation. “We must avoid recycling the old failed leaders in the governance of this country. Any mistake in electing a new set of leaders under the present constitution will ruin Nigeria completely. “The simple way out is for the National Assembly to pass a resolution adopting the 1960/1963 constitution with necessary amendments such as having in place six regions and one-house parliament,” he added. He expressed concern about the increasing proliferation of universities in Nigeria, saying the situation if not stopped by National University Commission (NUC) and the ministry of education, would have adverse effect on the nation’s education sector. “The ministry of education and NUC should exercise their powers to checkmate this in the interest of quality education in the country because what these ambitious members of the national assembly have done amounts to usurpation and abuse of power. “Every attempt must be made by all stakeholders to put a lid on the establishment of political universities that hardly survive those who put them in place after they are out of power otherwise, there will be a crash in the quality of private universities,” he added.