Omon-Julius Onabu A woman has been arrested by police in Delta State for allegedly demanding and obtaining the sum of N700,000 from a Year One student in one of the schools of nursing in the state under false pretences. The suspect had reportedly collected the sum of N400,000 from the student she had promised to “pass”, who is said to be one of those preparing for the forthcoming Preliminary Training Studies (PTS) in the state before police detectives pounced on her following a tip-off. The suspected fraudster, identified as Glory Fidelis Eteku, who preliminary investigation by the police showed was not even a staff member of any of the three recognized state schools of nursing, had demanded N700,000 from the student of which the parent coughed out N400,000 with a promise to pay the balance of N300,000 before the end of the month. The State Commissioner of Health, Dr. Mordi Ononye, in a statement in Asaba yesterday said that the suspect, who was arrested in Agbor by security agents, “has been transferred to the State Police Command headquarters in Asaba where she has given useful information to aid investigation”, saying that she would be arraigned in court soon. The Delta State Police spokesman, Mr. Bright Edafe (a DSP), confirmed the arrest of the woman via the telephone. This is even as the health commissioner warned students in the state schools of nursing to desist from engaging in acts of examination malpractice as the state government would not spare anyone involved. There was also “a current case of online sale of fake nursing entrance examination forms for the 2022 academic year by one Dr. Faith”, which the ministry was still investigating. The statement revealed that the advert for sales of form had a caveat with the warning that forms were not sold online but at the candidate’s school of choice on payment of an examination fee into the ministry’s account. “Any prospective candidate who falls victim to these scammers would not be allowed into the examination hall to write the entrance examination and the consequences would be loss of fees paid and academic year,” the health commissioner noted.