Seriki Adinoyi Governor Simon Lalong of Plateau has directed the Commissioner for Higher Education and the Head of Service to immediately engage stakeholders in resolving the misunderstanding that led to the suspension of the licence of Karl Kumm University (KKU), Vom, owned by the Church of Christ in Nations (COCIN). Lalong was speaking when the Pro-Chancellor and Chairman of Council of the University, Prof. Ochapa Onazi, led council members on a courtesy visit to Government House, Rayfield Jos. The governor expressed displeasure that the university that obtained its licence in 2021 could not take off due to a misunderstanding with its host community over the registrar’s appointment. Lalong further stated that his administration had previously restrained itself from meddling in the affairs of the private institution. He said, “Plateau State is known as a hub for education, and we are proud of COCIN for the contribution of its educational institutions, which have produced great minds in Nigeria. However, this development at the KKU does not speak well for the state and must be addressed immediately.” Speaking further, he disclosed, “Just last week, I visited Mr. President and appealed to him to sign the bill passed by the National Assembly to upgrade Federal College of Education Pankshin to a University of Education. While we are looking for more Universities, we have to show that we are ready to be good hosts.” He said, “We have explained to the host community that we could not have gone ahead to appoint a candidate with deficiencies and create further problems for the new institution. We have also explained to the community that there are other appointments of principal officers for the university yet to be done, which we hope will consider their interest based on the MOU.” But, according to him, the youths refused to budge despite all entreaties from Dagwom Rwei, the traditional ruler of the area, among others. He explained that the university prefers to embrace dialogue rather than confrontation, which is why it has maintained a peaceful posture despite acts of provocation. Vice-Chancellor of the university Prof. Nanven Audu Gambo, said the governor’s intervention would go a long way in ensuring that the university takes off immediately to avoid further waste of time and resources.