Igbo clerics, monarchs and elders under the aegis of the South-east Council of Traditional Rulers and Representatives of Igbo Archbishops and Bishops on Peace and Conflict Resolution have called for an end to criminality and other forms of insecurity in Imo State. The group particularly condemned the recent invasion of the place of worship by policemen on December 26, 2021, adding that it exposed the long-running troubling state of affairs in the State, which according to them had led to the loss of many lives, hundreds of millions of naira of property, a deterioration of the environment for business and a debilitating poisoning of public culture and trust. In a statement jointly signed by the Obi Of Onitsha, Igwe Nnaemeka Achebe and Archbishop Chibuzo Opoko, Methodist Archbishop of Umuahia, the group declared that the tensions, violence and failing law and order were being situation fuelled by selfish politicians in the state was unacceptable and must be brought to an end. The group therefore called on all the political leaders in contestations and their followers to cease and desist from all actions that will escalate or compound the situation on the ground in the state. They also proposed urgent meetings with the governor, past governors, the former governorship candidates, and elders of the state in order to proffer a solution. “The dramatic and condemnable invasion of a place of worship by officers of the Nigeria Police Force on 26 December, 2021 ostensibly to effect the arrest of a former Governorship candidate in Imo State has brought to the public consciousness the long-running troubling state of affairs in the state, which has led to the loss of many lives, hundreds of millions of naira of property, a deterioration of the environment for business and a debilitating poisoning of public culture and trust. “The tensions, violence and failing law and order situation have resulted in a significant number of deaths, including those of traditional rulers, a considerable number of missing persons, and the abduction of scores of youth presumably by law enforcement and non-state actors. “Many attribute this to the prevailing political differences in the State. These arrested and kidnapped young men are said to be held in concentration camp conditions. “This state of affairs in Imo State, blamed largely on a few politicians of the State and their cohorts, constitute an assault on the dignity and well-being of Ndi Imo and the Igbo nation. It is unacceptable and must be brought to a speedy resolution,” the statement added. It added: “To pursue one’s political interest to the detriment of the interest of the people that one seeks to serve violates the essence of the Igbo way and good leadership. “As such we call on all the gladiators, requesting that they note that the ethos of Ndi Igbo is steeped in ‘egbe belu ugo ebelu’. We know what fate is cast on the one that does not allow the other to perch. “We propose to immediately commence meetings with the Governor, the past Governors, the former Governorship candidates, and elders of the State to scope the problem and proffer a solution.”