Ibrahim Shuaibu The Association of Commercial Tricycle Operators in Kano State, has suspended the strike action it embarked upon on Monday. The lawyer of the association, Barrister Abba Hikima announced the suspension of the strike while addressing journalists shortly after a joint meeting between officials of the association and State Government Officials yesterday. The meeting, which was held at the NBA headquarters, was led by the State Chairman of Nigerian Bar Association, Aminu Gadanya. The Managing Director of the Kano Road Traffic Agency, Baffa Dan’agundi represented the state government while Barrister Abba Hikima represented the Association of the Tricycle Operators. Hikima said among the resolutions reached at the meeting members of the association would resume work from Thursday (today). The association would write to the state government to request for a reduction of the registration fee from N8,000. A member of the association would be forced to pay the registration until when the government reduce the fee which would be announced at a meeting to be convened on 18th of January 2022. Members of the association would continue to pay the daily levy of N100, among other resolutions. Tricycle Strike: Kano PDP Accuses Ganduje of Economic Sabotage Meanwhile, before the suspension of the strike, the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in Kano state expressed dismay at the intention of the state governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje to destroy the daily economic activities in the state for refusing to reconcile with striking tricycle riders for the last three days. The State Chairman of the party, Alhaji Shehu Wada Sagagi in a Statement made available to THISDAY, revealed that “Kano is known for various commercial activities on daily basis and the means of transportation remains the major pillar with the tricycle riders as catalysts who cater for at least 80 percent of the routine movements within the metropolitan city. “It is very pertinent to note that Ganduje’s administration has failed its citizens in every ramification, particularly, the state government has done nothing in the transport sector for the seven years of its existence rather it truncated the students transportation systems introduced by the govt. of Engr Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso”. “Ganduje and his cohorts have turned the Kano Road Traffic Agency (KAROTA) into a major revenue generating agency instead of being a traffic regulatory agency as it was established to serve with that purpose”. Part of the statement added “Hundreds of thousands of the youth are engaged in this business and it generates both employment and state revenue, only a government without a clear economic directions can fight a self-employed youth, women and other individuals at a time when the nation faces a dwindling economy and insecurity that put citizen into abject poverty”. PDP further stressed that the government should as a matter of urgency address this issue because allowing this crisis to linger on it retains the tendency to degenerate into chaos and disturb the prevailing peace in the state as a teaming number of our youth are left without means of livelihood. “Governor Ganduje and members of his cabinet kept mum despite being fully aware of the sufferings faced by the residents of Kano, which include but not limited to business men and women, civil servants, students of both primary, secondary and tertiary schools, people seeking for medical attention in various health facilities and visitors of the state”.