O3 Captital has been awarded the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard version 3.2.1 certification 2022. The company’s Chief Operating Officer, Mr. Taye Falana affirms the company’s full commitment to providing a secure environment which ensures cardholder data is protected all through data storage and transaction processing. “The award of this certification is a testament to that commitment. He said that although Customer Experience is the corner stone of the O3 philosophy, security and data protection cannot be ccompromised “This certification aligns with O3 Ca0itals growth vision which involves Pan African expansion and partnerships with international institutions that would enhance the value of the O3 Carss and the user experience, “he said. Falana added that it was a painstaking journey as twelve strict compliance standards have to be attained in other to acquire the PCI DSS certification; “The PCI version 3.2.1 compliance certificate was awarded to O3 Capital Nigeria Limited by a Quality Security Assessor, Sync InfoSec LLC, Roanoke Texas, USA on behalf of the PCI Standards Security Council and in partnership with Digital Encode Ltd, its Nigerian partner.” The Chief Visionary Officer, Digital Encode, Dr Obadare Peter Adewale explained that the PCI DSS certification is an important certification for any organization whose business operation involves the storage, processing, and transmission of card data. He also stated that PCI compliance is an important asset that assures customers that doing business with you is safe or secured. “The financial and reputational costs of non-compliance, on the other hand, should be enough to compel any company to put data security first. The Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard is a set of compliance requirements put together to ensure that all companies that process, store, or transmit card holder information and data maintain a secure environment. These set of requirements are globally set for compliance purpose, “he said. O3 Capital is one of the fastest growing Neo banks in the Fintech space in Nigeria. O3 Capital provides physical and virtual credit cards to individuals, business owners and the unbanked population with limits up to N5 million. The cards are compatible with all POS, ATM terminals and E-Commerce sites in Nigeria while the mobile app O3Card (on Android or IOS) provides free and seamless transaction functionalities conveniently for all users. O3 is creating a Credit Card culture that offers total freedom and bank less financial services (Bank Agnostic). The O3 vision is a card in every wallet with focus on Nigeria in particular and Africa as a whole. After 7 years of operations, the company has a great understanding of consumer behavior and provides cash just at the time of need for all cardholders.