Emma Okonji Quantum Xchange, delivering the future of encryption with its leading-edge key distribution platform has entered into a strategic partnership with Spire Solutions, a top value-added distributor and preferred cybersecurity solutions provider servicing the Middle East and Africa. Spire customers, partners, and prospects will benefit from access to Phio Trusted Xchange (TX), Quantum Xchange’s out-of-band key delivery system that enables users to future-proof the security of their data and communications networks; overcome the vulnerabilities of present-day encryption techniques, e.g., keys and data traveling together; and protect against man-in-the-middle, harvesting, and future quantum attacks. Phio TX from Quantum Xchange acts as a simple architecture overlay that works in tandem with conventional encryption systems and any TCP/IP connection (wireless, copper, satellite, fiber) to decouple key generation and delivery from data transmissions. With Phio TX a second, quantum-enhanced encryption key is sent out-of-band down a separate quantum-protected tunnel and mesh network to multiple transmission points. Continuous key rotation takes place on every transfer, further heightening the system’s security. Founder and President of Spire Solutions, Sanjeev Walia, said: “We are in the early stages of the greatest migration in the history of computing as nearly every organization in the world will need to update and transition their legacy encryption to new quantum-safe standards. “Quantum Xchange’s unique technology greatly eases this burden, offering an affordable and dynamic next-generation key delivery architecture for stronger data security today and quantum-safe protection from future threats. We are pleased to have QXC as a partner and to add Phio TX to our portfolio of the world’s best security products and services.” Phio TX embraces crypto agility, supporting quantum keys generated from any source, i.e., Quantum Random Number Generator (QRNG), Quantum Key Distribution (QKD), or a combination, and all Post-Quantum Cryptographic (PQC) key encapsulation candidate algorithms being evaluated by the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) scheduled for standardization in 2022. The FIPS-validated network security appliance also meets the European Telecommunication Standards Institute (ETSI) protocol for QKD. With Phio TX, users can start with PQC, then easily scale to QKD protection levels with no interruptions to their underlying infrastructure and no network downtime. Quantum Xchange will join Spire Solutions stand H1 A120 at #LEAP22, the inaugural global platform for the most disruptive technology professionals taking place at the Riyadh Front Expo Centre in Saudi Arabia from Feb. 1-3, 2022.