Segun Awofadeji in Gombe The Gombe State Police Commissioner, Mr. Ishola Babaitan yesterday disclosed that he had arrested four Béninoise and two Nigerians over an attempt to commit fraud in Gombe. Babaitan identified the suspects as Abdullahi Yusuf Adamu, 26, from Gombe State; Jasper Jacob, 33, from Taraba State; Dafton Elysée, Hopko Adolphe, Jamal Salami and Emmanuel Haunukon are nationals of Benin Republic. During the course of interrogation, the police commissioner claimed that they are into online networking business. According to him, it was established that the suspects are into a ponzi scheme to defraud unsuspecting members of the public. He said the command had on 18th January 2022, at about 08:30pm, received information that three Hummer buses brought some young men numbering about 109. He said: “Immediately Police operatives in synergy with the Department of State Service (DSS) were dispatched to the scene. The people were invited to the DSS facility where they were interrogated. “Later, two Nigerians mentioned above were transferred to the police for discrete investigation and possible prosecution while the four Béninoise were handed over to the Nigeria Immigration Service, later on, the Nigeria Immigration Service transferred the four suspects to the Police,” Babaitan said. While advising the general public to be wary of those they transact business with to avoid being defrauded, the police commissioner assured that all the suspects would be charged to court for prosecution. However, one of the suspects, Abdullahi Yusuf Adamu, said the business “is not fraudulent because he registered the business in Benin Republic and has been doing it over there.” Babaitan noted that he brought it to Nigeria for his people to benefit from the networking business adding that he is ready to go to Court to defend himself. According to him, company products such as jewelleries, wristwatches among other genuine products are bought from the company and given to marketers to sell and get their commission.