Blessing Ibunge in Port Harcourt Popular Nigerian Artiste, Teniola Akpata, popularly known as Teni, allegedly escaped hoodlums’ attack while performing at Buguma Town in Asari-Toru Local Government Area of Rivers State. THISDAY gathered that the female musician mostly known for her hit sing “Your Case”, was on stage performing at a event organised by some old boys of Kalabari National College, at the Buguma Square when some drunk youths started throwing bottles from different angles to the stage. The incident, it was further gathered, happened at about 11pm, which suddenly created panic and people started running for safety. According to an eyewitness from the community who pleaded anonymity, when the bottle-throwing became serious, security men contacted to ensure safety at the programme started shooting up to scare away the suspected hoodlums. It was at that point, according to the source, that Teni was pulled out from the stage for her safety. The source said: “Teni was performing on a stage at the Bumuga square in a get-together programme organised by 2002 set of Kalabari National College, when some boys who were drunk started throwing bottles and there was panic at the event. “When the security men that were contracted to ensure peace and orderly at the programme noticed what was happening and inorder stop the bottle throwing which has injured so many persons, they (security personnel) started shooting up and at that point they carried Teni away from the stage. “There was no case of exchange of gunshot or gun wound but the programme ended at that point”, the source disclosed. Meanwhile, the state Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Grace Iringi-Koko, has refuted the alleged attempted kidnap on the female musician by some hoodlums. She said: “Contrary to what many think that there was an attempt to kidnap the singer, the Gunshots heard in the background were from security operatives who were shooting in the air to repel some disgruntled element who were throwing objects at her while on stage. “She was invited for a carnival where she was performing, some miscreants started throwing stones and all that. “But the police and other security agencies were on ground to ensure nothing happened and the command has started Investigation into the incident to ascertain what really happened. “The police division there in Buguma has been mandated to fish out those behind the attack. We will ensure they are brought to book,” she stated.