Kemi Olaitan in Ibadan The waiting game to appoint the 42nd Olubadan of Ibadanland continued yesterday as the kingmakers held a meeting at the Olubadan Palace, Mapo, to ratify the name of Otun Olubadan, High Chief Lekan Balogun. With the demise of Oba Saliu Adetunji on January 2, the kingmakers were expected to meet and submit the name of new Olubadan to the Oyo State Governor, Mr. Seyi Makinde, on or before January 16. It was learnt that at the meeting, which lasted for two hours and was held behind closed-door, seven of the kingmakers present ratified and sent the name of Balogun to Makinde for his approval as the new Olubadan. However, conspicuously absent were the Osi Olubadan and former Governor of the Oyo State, High Chief Rasheed Ladoja. Those that were present at the meeting include High Chiefs Owolabi Olakulehin (Balogun of Ibadanland); Tajudeen Ajibola (Otun Balogun); and Lateef Gbadamosi Adebimpe (Osi Balogun). Others were High Chiefs Kola Adegbola (Ashipa); Olubunmi Isioye (Ekerin Balogun); Eddy Oyewole (Ashipa Olubadan) and Biodun Kola-Daisi (Ekerin Olubadan), while the Iyalode of Ibadanland, High Chief Theresa Oyekanmi, was also absent due to reported ill-health. The kingmakers, who came out of the meeting at about 1:45p.m., kept mum and declined to respond to questions from journalists who had gathered at the venue of the meeting. However, it was gathered that the kingmakers sent the name of Balogun, being the most senior High Chief on the line to produce the next Olubadan to Makinde for approval. The source said: “The kingmakers met today at the Olubadan Palace and they took a decision to ratify the name of the Olubadan-elect and send same to the state governor, Mr .‘Seyi Makinde, for approval.” It would be recalled that 10 out of the 11 members of the Olubadan-In-Council had last Wednesday during a press briefing held at the ancient Mapo Hall, endorsed and declared the Otun Olubadan as the Olubadan-elect. The Otun Balogun of Ibadanland, High Chief Tajudeen Ajibola, while speaking on behalf of other kingmakers, had said the entire Olubadan-in-Council, supported the endorsement, adding that there is no court case stopping such.