Emma Okonji The federal government has applauded the commitment and dedication of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), towards enhancing digital skills development among youths. NCC has been involved with the implementation of various Information and Communication Technology (ICT) skills acquisition programmes that benefited several Nigerians. Minister of Interior, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola and the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr. Isa Ali Ibrahim Pantami, gave the commendation during the inauguration of a Digital Nigeria Centre (DNC), a project executed by the Universal Service Provision Fund (USPF), an arm of NCC, at the Ijesa Muslim Grammar School, Ilesa, Osun State recently. Representing President Muhamadu Buhari at the event, Aregbesola commended the NCC for timely and thorough implementation of the project, saying he was confident that the project will promote the connection of public secondary schools to broadband internet in Ilesa community and ultimately equip beneficiaries with 21st century skills. “I would like to thank the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr. Isa Ali Ibrahim Pantami, for assenting to our request to have the first of this remodeled project in Osun State sited in Ilesa. I will also like to thank the Executive Vice Chairman of NCC, Prof. Umar Garba Danbatta and the entire management and staff of NCC and the USPF, as well as their technical partners for a timely and successful completion of this laudable project,” he said. Osun State Commissioner for Innovation, Science and Technology, Dr. Babatunde Olawale, who represented the state governor, Gbenga Oyetola expressed the gratitude of the state government to the federal government, the Ministry of Communications and Digital Economy and the Nigerian Communications Commission, for the initiative and particularly for inaugurating the pioneer remodeled DNC project in Osun State. Oyetola also informed the gathering that Osun State government was willing and ready to collaborate with NCC to replicate the project in other parts of the state. Speaking in the same vein, Pantami, who was represented at the event by the Chairman, Board of Commissioners of NCC, Prof. Adeolu Akande, also commended the NCC and USPF on the delivery of the DNC project on behalf of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. Pantami stated that the federal government was focused on promoting digital economy across the country and that this had informed the renaming of the Ministry of Communications to the Ministry of Communications and Digital Economy. The Principal of Ijesa Muslim Grammar School, Ramota Ilesanmi, thanked the President Buhari-led federal government for the project, saying that it will go a long way in meeting the ICT needs of students and residents of the city.