Emma Okonji A 37-year-old insurance executive, Kafayat Adewale, has emerged the 13th car winner in the ongoing Globacom’s Joy Unlimited Extravaganza promo. The car Key was presented at the winner in Lagos, while other prizes were also presented to winners in Lagos recently. The car winner who was accompanied by friends and relatives to the prize-presentation event held in Cele-Okota, Lagos, described the prize as “a unique way to start year 2022.” According to he, “For the past five days, I have not been myself. It’s not that I don’t have a car but if anyone had predicted in December that I will have a brand new car in January, I wouldn’t have believed. Initially, I was skeptical when I got a call from Glo but by the time the second call came in and they all sounded very professional coupled with the fact that I visited the Gloworld near Cele Bus Stop where I did the verification and I saw the car parked there, I became convinced. I have received the car key and I am now a Glo ambassador. I will continue to convince all Nigerians to join the Glo network. God bless Glo.”
At the event, 66 other Glo subscribers went home with different prizes including 23 television sets, 20 refrigerators and 23 generators. The winners who received their prizes with gratitude to Globacom for introducing the promo, collectively agreed that the promo, “has brought joy to us at the beginning of the New Year, thus giving us hope for a better year ahead.” Allen Onyige, a television production executive based in Berger area of Lagos who won a generator said, “I was actually trusting God for a new generator for my production work since last year, only for me to receive a call from Glo this January that I won a brand new generator. To God be the glory, this is a New Year gift from Glo. Now, I can go to work. More blessings to Globacom”, while a refrigerator winner, Kafilat Rasaq, a 30-year-old business woman from Oyo State who said the prize is going straight home added that “My family will enjoy the new fridge at home; I thank Glo and God for making my family happy”. Also a television winner, Odunayo Balekan, a 42-year-old Engineer with Dangote Cement in Ibeshe, Ogun State, said, “I will enjoy both my football games and nollywood movies with my family on the new television set. I appreciate Glo and will make it my permanent network henceforth”. Regional Manager, Sales, Globacom, Abdulrasaq Ande, expressed the appreciation of the board and management of the company to all Nigerians, particularly Glo subscribers for their support and loyalty over the years. He said, “You remain our pillar of strength and we will continue to give more value to our subscribers as they use their Glo lines”, adding that 12 brand new Kia Rio cars have been won so far in addition to hundreds of thousands of subscribers who have won home appliances including television, refrigerators and generators as well as data plans and other Glo freebies. Zonal coordinator, National Lottery Regulatory Commission, Mrs. Prisicilla Onuzulu, who also spoke at the event, congratulated Globacom for always delivering on its promises. She said: “Glo is a big brand and they have been compliant since the commencement of the promo. So far Globacom has done very well”.