*Says Lagos should tell Nigerians why Supreme Court Judgment has not been complied with Alex Enumah in Abuja The Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Mr Abubakar Malami, SAN has reacted to the statement of South West Governors accusing him of complicity in the ongoing crisis at Magodo Estate in Lagos. Malami in a statement by his media aide, Dr Umar Gwandu, warned politicians to desist from the habit of dragging his person into the mud at every slightest opportunity, noting that the issue at hand has nothing to do with the Executive arm of government where he belongs but, rather obedience to the rule of law, which the governors have a duty to defend. “The Office of the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice takes exception to the Southwest Governors unjustifiable insinuation of impunity against the office of the Attorney General over execution of a judgment of the Supreme Court. “The role of the executive is, in this respect, simply to aide the maintenance of law and order in due compliance with rule of law arising from giving effect to the judgment of the apex court of the land. “Let it be known that the issue is regarding a Supreme Court Judgement that was delivered in 2012 long before the coming of President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration in office at a time when Malami was not a Minister. “The judgment was a reaffirmation of the judgments of Court of Appeal and High Court delivered on 31st December, 1993”, the statement read in part. The statement, while expressing surprise over the position of the governors described it as a vituperation of ulterior motives of some political class who derived pleasure in dragging the name of Malami in the mud to achieve some sinister objectives. “It is widely reported in the papers that the Lagos state Governor was quoted to have said I’ve spoken extensively with the Inspector-General of Police and the Honourable Attorney-General, and we’ve resolved all the issues. “The Office of the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, would appreciate if the coalition of the Governors will help to unravel the circumstances preventing the Lagos State Government from enforcing the court order despite several attempts from 2012- 2015 and so-called settlement initiative started in 2016. “Some of the cardinal pillars of democratic Government are the doctrine of separation of powers and obedience to the rule of law inclusive of Court Orders. “It is a common knowledge that execution of the judgment and orders of Courts of competent jurisdiction, and the Court of last resort in the circumstances remains a cardinal component of the rule of law and the office of the Attorney General wonders how maintenance of the law and orders in the course of execution of the judgment of the supreme can be adjudged by imagination of the governors to be unruly. “We want to restate that sanctity of the rule of law is not a matter of choice”, the statement added.