Rebecca Ejifoma Members of the Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria (PSN) have commended RxAll, a health tech company, for introducing RxScanner into the country’s market. The organisation made this known during the unveiling of the product at the PSN 2021 conference held in Port Harcourt, Rivers State recently. Pharmacist Olusola Porter, University College Hospital (UCH) Ibadan, said the technology would positively impact the counterfeit drug market in Africa, especially Nigeria. For Pharmacist Uchechukwu Eloere of EBY-Care Pharmacy in Abia state, he wanted an innovation that could give information about drugs that is scanned even if the specific drug is not in the database. “And RxScanner did just that in the demo”. Pharmacist Charles Ronari of PSN Bayelsa, who expressed excitement about the innovation requested a special presentation of the Demo in Bayelsa state. A representative of the National Agency for Food Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) requested to know how many drugs are in the database was met with a response from Oluseyi Olarerin that RxScanner is regularly updating to ensure that daily the number of drugs are in line with what is available in the market. Oluseyi added that RxAll is in partnership with various regulators across the globe to ensure that the updates of drugs are done appropriately, thus numbers will continue to grow as manufacturers enlist drugs as approved by various regulators across the globe. RxScanner is a handheld drug authenticator device created to verify drugs and also to help drug regulators to reduce administrative burden, improve record-keeping and also improve productivity and successful prosecution of bad actors. Country FDAs, hospitals, pharmacies, and big pharmaceutical companies across the world are said to be using the device. Speaking on RxScanner, the CEO of RxAll, Adebayo Alonge, said, “We serve clients in pharmaceutical settings where accuracy is critical because the health and well-being of patients are on the line. “We help our clients meet these high standards by striving to go above and beyond expectations with our unique approach to pharmacy tools and prescription verification software.” According to Alonge, they aim to build lasting and authentic relationships with clients and partners. “Through these relationships, we have been able to create new and innovative strategies and approaches to respond to and solve pharmacy and health care challenges,” he emphasised. On the prescription verification software, the CEO highlighted that it helps clients in all aspects of the pharmacy industry to increase their medication accuracy.