Amby Uneze in Owerri Gunmen Friday night attacked Mgbidi Divisional Police Headquarters in Imo State, killing an inspector and leaving another policeman with injuries. According to eyewitnesses, the attack caused panic in the area as the hoodlums who came in a vehicle and police operatives engaged in a firefight. THISDAY gathered that the gunmen had on arrival, opened fire but the policemen on duty responded swiftly to repel the attack. The invaders were said to have arrived around 9:00 p.m. on Friday and met stiff opposition by policemen who engaged them in a shootout, which resulted in the death of the police officer. Confirming the incident yesterday, the spokesperson for the police in the state, Mr. Micheal Abattam said that the attackers were repelled by the officers on duty. He, however, confirmed that one inspector was killed while another sustained minor injury during the attack.
Abattam said: “On January 14, at about 20:45 hours, the command’s tactical teams at Mgbidi Police Station repelled an attack by some hoodlums who came in a white Hilux vehicle shooting sporadically, attempted to gain entrance into the station but were repelled by the ever gallant command’s tactical teams and the police operatives of the division who positioned themselves professionally “They engaged the hoodlums in a gun duel. In the process, the attackers were suppressed almost immediately, having suffered a huge defeat, with a number of them sustaining various degrees of bullet wounds.”
They retreated and escaped in the Toyota Hilux vehicle they came with and were given a hot chase by the police operatives. “Consequently, a vigorous and aggressive manhunt of the hoodlums is ongoing with the sole aim of tracking and arresting the fleeing hoodlums since they cannot go far because of the huge damage done to them.
“However, in the course of the attack, a police Inspector lost his life, while another sustained minor bullet injury on his hand. “Meanwhile, the Commissioner of Police CP Rabiu Hussaini, commended the officers and men for their gallantry and urged them not to relent in their efforts until all criminal elements and their partners are apprehended and made to face the full wrath of the law. “He then appealed to Imolites for the continuous support and collaboration by giving security agencies, especially the Police, credible and timely information and to report any person seen treating bullet wounds or hiding within the community to the nearest police station for prompt action.”