By Vanessa Obioha The Chude & Ego Foundation has constituted its Board of Trustees, which is led by Founder Nonso Okpala, and other board members including Mobolaji Adewumi and Okunwa Okpala, as part of its 2021 Board resolution. A non-profit organization dedicated to transforming low-income communities by providing access to world-class education and quality healthcare, the Foundation has set for itself the goal of empowering individuals to rise above economic and social barriers, channel their productivity and thrive for themselves and for their communities. Nonso Okpala is the Group Managing Director/CEO of VFD Group Plc, a proprietary investment company with interests in banking, technology, real estate, and hospitality, among other things. The company is currently invested in over 40 companies. His years of experience at reputable firms such as KPMG, BGL, United Bank for Africa Plc, and Heirs Holdings have provided him with unrivalled knowledge of the Nigerian financial services industry. Nonso founded the Foundation and will chair its board of trustees. Mobolaji Adewumi, a well-known financial advisor and Executive Director, Abbey Mortgage Bank Plc, has been appointed to the Foundation’s Board of Trustees. Mobolaji has extensive financial services experience and expertise, having worked with regional and global leaders in the industry such as VFD Group Plc, First Bank of Nigeria Ltd, ASO Savings, United Bank for Africa, and KPMG Nigeria. Okunwa Okpala, Founder/CEO of Cellar Central Limited, a rapidly growing sales and e-commerce company, has also been appointed to the Foundation’s Board of Trustees. Okunwa is a supply chain specialist and entrepreneur with experience in marketing, business development, and human resources who excels at identifying new business opportunities and consolidating business outcomes. “It is an honour to serve on the Board of Trustees, and I am dedicated to serving as a champion and advisor for the foundation, its projects, and the communities we serve,” Okunwa Okpala said. The Foundation’s board also confirms Mrs. Onyinye Anyaegbu’s appointment as Chief Executive Officer, effective December 1, 2021. Anyaegbu’s new role as a long-term member of the Chude & Ego Foundation welcomes her continued valuable contributions, leadership, and governance oversight. Onyinye has built an enviable career as a Global HR professional, having held a variety of HR positions in the FMCG and pharmaceutical industries. In previous roles at Fortune 500 companies such as Diageo Plc (UK) and GlaxoSmithKline, she has a proven track record of developing talent, driving performance and growth, and fostering diversity and inclusion, and her intercultural competence has been critical in translating business vision into HR initiatives. A thoughtful leader who is deeply committed to equity and inclusion, a strong advocate for Nigeria, and a firm believer in the foundation’s enormous impact. Onyinye combines her ten-plus years of experience in human resources, operations excellence, and a purposeful mindset to help the foundation achieve its goals. “While education is supposed to be a fundamental right for all, so many children in Nigeria and Africa will never receive one; while this is tragic for families, it is especially abysmal for the country and continent, given the amount of talent lost and potential economic loss.
These individuals, if given the proper opportunities, have the potential to serve as the catalyst for a new African Renaissance. The Chude and Ego Foundation’s mission is to provide these opportunities “Nonso Okpala stated. “I’m excited to see the great strides this foundation will make under the guidance and oversight of our new CEO, Onyinye Anyaegbu.” A few weeks prior, the Foundation hosted a glitzy gala dinner at the Boardroom Apartments in Lekki, Lagos, to raise funds for the Foundation and its flagship project, Osnon Academy, an international standard tuition-free co-boarding secondary school in Uga, Anambra. Phyno, Timi Dakolo, Waje, and DJ Spinall were among the Nigerian superstars who performed at the festive fundraiser, which raised N200 million.
The funds will be used to build Osnon Academy, the first of several school construction projects planned. It’s worth noting that the school’s site has already been acquired.