Bennett Oghifo Chairman of Oriental Energy Resources, Alhaji Muhammadu Indimi, OFR, has extolled Julius Berger’s engineering construction quality used in the design and building of its ultra-modern aircraft hangar at the Maiduguri International Airport. Oriental Energy Resources Limited founded by renowned industrialist, Alhaji Muhammadu Indimi, OFR, scored a high mark on its infrastructural contribution to the country’s development last Thursday when President Muhammadu Buhari commissioned the company’s new ultra-modern aircraft Hangar at the Maiduguri international airport in Borno State. The works also included the cast of an apron slab and a new taxiway constructed to connect the Hangar to the main runway of the Maiduguri International Airport The Hangar materials, including beams, columns, and metal sheets, amongst other technical components were procured by Oriental Energy Resources Limited, while its precision integration and construction was awarded to the nation’s leading engineering construction company, Julius Berger Nigeria Plc. In less than one year of commencement of the works, the ever-reliable Julius Berger has built the Hangar, which houses not only Aircraft but also offices and welfare spaces for the Client, its employees, pilots and executive guests. Ancillary facilities at the new state-of-the-art Hangar include two modern guesthouses designed and built to Julius Berger’s ISO certification quality standard. The respected industrialist, Alhaji Indimi commended Julius Berger for the excellent quality of works Julius Berger delivered for Oriental Energy Resources at the Maiduguri International Airport. Other important dignitaries who accompanied President Muhammadu Buhari to the ceremony included the Executive Governor of Borno State, Professor Babagan Zulum, the Executive Governor of Kaduna State, Malam Nasir El-Rufai, former Governor of Borno State Ali Modu-Sheriff, amongst others. The Chief of Defence Staff, General Irabor personally actively led the security and military contingent to the successful ceremony in Maiduguri. Representing the Managing Director Engr. Dr Lars Richter and leading Julius Berger’s delegation to the commissioning ceremony in Maiduguri was the company’s Executive Director of Administration, Alhaji Zubairu Ibrahim Bayi. Engr. Goni Musa Sheikh, Director of Julius Berger Nigeria Plc was also at the ceremony.