Nseobong Okon-Ekong writes that another support group to advertise the aspiration of Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu to become President of Nigeria has surfaced Former council chairmen in Lagos State have begun mobilisation for the presidential aspiration of the All Progressives Congress (APC) National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. The former helmsmen under the aegis of ‘Grassroots Network for Asiwaju Bola Tinubu (GNAT),’ described the eminent politician as a great benefactor, who has built many political actors, including Governor Kayode Fayemi, Muiz Banire(SAN), Lai Mohammed, Rauf Aregbesola and Babatunde Fashola. GNAT comprises serving and former local government chairmen, councillors, supervisors, secretaries to the local government, secretaries to education, special advisers, special assistants and other political appointees at the local government level across the country. GNAT leader Abiodun Mafe, who spoke at the launch of the group in Lagos, said the footsoldiers cannot afford to be ingrate to the former Lagos governor, who played a great role in their rise to prominence.
Former Bariga Council chairman Omoyele Suleiman, who launched the organisation,
said:”We will travel round the nooks and cranies of Nigeria to mobilise for Asiwaju to realise his dream of a greater Nigeria that works.” A party chieftain from Kano State, Abdullahi Tanko Yakassai, said Tinubu is the answer to the myriad of problems confronting the country. He advised members of the group to go back to the grassroots to mobilise and secure the commitment of the people towards Tinubu’s bid for the presidency. Former All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) governorship aspirant in Anambra State Rommy Okoli described Tinubu as a gift to Nigeria, whose benevolence cuts across the six geo-political zones.
He praised the presidential aspirant for his courage, investment in pro-democracy crusade, achievements in Lagos as governor, political mentoring and belief in national unity, assuring that he will bring development to Nigeria, if elected. Hailing Tinubu for entering the race, party chieftain Queen Ajagbe said the former governor who made Lagos a model will also make Nigeria a reference point in the comity of nations. At the ceremony held at the Lagos Airport Hotel, Ikeja, Seye Oladejo, Kehinde Bamigbetan, Ayodele Adewale, Wale Odunlami, Kamal Bayewu, Samuel Adedayo, Hon. Bamgbose, Hon. Labinjo and other former local government chairmen. Mafe justified Tinubu’s bid, saying that he is a credible, reliable, tested, trusted and accomplished Nigerian. He said he will consolidate on the achievements of President Muhammadu Buhari. He described Tinubu as a true defender of the right of states as component units of the federation to perform their constitutional obligations as enshrined in the constitution without interference, oppressive subjugation and autocratic garrulity of a president that violates the spirit and letters of the constitution. Mafe recalled that Tinubu tried to unlock the gridlock by creating additional 37 additional local governments in 2003. He said:”We would be ingrates to forget so soon that Asiwaju courageously and innovatively kept the local governments running for years while the federal government seized the legitimate earnings of Lagos State. “Asiwaju sacrificed and flogged himself night and day to keep the 37 babies that were born from dying. He refused to commit their abortion. For that demonstration of sacrifice and courage, the entire political appointees and civil servants in the local government system in Lagos State and our comrades and allies across Nigeria believe the occasion of Asiwaju’s declaration to run for the presidency of Nigeria is payback time for the local government operatives in Nigeria.” He added: “We are happy to announce that there now exists a nationwide grassroots movement of local government operatives determined to ensure that Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu picks the ticket of the All Progressives Congress and proceeds to win the February 18 2023 presidential election.”