Victor Ogunje in Ado Ekiti An All Progressives Congress (APC) Governorship Aspirant in Ekiti State, Mr. Reuben Famuyibo, has decamped from the ruling party to the Accord Party as his preferred platform to contest the June 18 governorship election in the state. The 1993 Social Democratic Party’s presidential aspirant said that his decision to dump the APC was borne out of the desire of political stakeholders within and outside the state to have him on the ballot. Famuyibo, who spoke with journalists yesterday in Ado-Ekiti, accused the leadership of the APC of not providing a level playing field for all aspirants, which he said necessitated the call by his admirers and supporters to pursue his aspiration in other platform. He said his well encapsulated blueprint is centred on youth empowerment, industrialisation, modern and technologically inclined education and agriculture, enhanced healthcare delivery and women empowerment. “We have observed happenings in the APC in the last few months that the state government has been deploying state machineries for an aspirant. This is quite unfair and the process is already skewed and planned for the governor’s favoured aspirant to emerge. “The process is being teleguided by the governor and I can’t stay in that kind of situation. I informed my people that it is not the governor that will vote in the general elections. “So, in view of my consultations and calls by people within and outside, and being one of the founding fathers of Ekiti, I will be contesting the June 18 governorship election under the platform of Accord Party. We will join hands to rescue Ekiti,” he said. However, an gubernatorial aspirant on the platform of the APC, Senator Opeyemi Bamidele, has declared that the transparent screening conducted by a committee of the party for the contestants gave a pointer that the January 27 primary would be free, fair and credible. Bamidele said that the party’s screening exercise, which was conducted in Abuja on Tuesday, has portrayed APC as a truly democratic party. He described the procedure of the seven-man committee, led by Senator Domingo Obende, as very fruitful, interactive and indicative of a level playing ground for all the aspirants who appeared before it. “I want to say definitely that it was a very fruitful exercise. Members of the screening committee were very sensitive to issues in Ekiti State as well as to issues in Nigeria within our party. It went beyond mere questions, screening and documentation.”