George Okoh in Makurdi Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom, has refuted allegation accusing him of involvement in the election of a new paramount ruler of Idoma people, the Ochi’Idoma. This is even as a socio cultural group, the Ochetoha K’Idoma, accused the governor of meddling into the selection process. The governor in a statement signed by his Press Secretary, Mr. Nathaniel Ikyur, said the governor had no hand in the process. He said for the avoidance of doubt, the governor has no hand in the selection of any traditional ruler or chiefs either in Idoma traditional area or Tiv traditional area. He added that at no time did the governor invite any traditional ruler of Idoma extraction or whosesoever to the Government House for the purposes related to the selection of the new traditional ruler for the Idoma nation. “The selection of the new Och’Idoma was based on the legal procedure as enshrined in the legal instruments of the chieftaincy laws of Benue State,” Ikyur said. He said: “We have read a news report credited to Ochetoha K’Idoma National Forum and signed by one retired AVM Toni Adokwu, wherein he levelled spurious and unfounded allegations against Governor Ortom for interfering in the selection of the Och’Idoma-elect, His Royal Majesty, Dr. John Elaigwu Odogbo, meanwhile, contrary to their false claims, due process was followed in the selection exercise as provided by the Benue State Council of Chiefs and Traditional Councils Law 2016. A highlight of the provisions states that: The Och’Idoma shall be chosen rotationally by a Selection Committee from among the components of Agatu and Apa; Otukpo and Ohimini; Ado Enone (Ado, Ogbadibo and Okpokwu); Igede (Oju and Obi). And from the history as narrated by members of the selection committee, it was the turn of Agatu and Apa to produce the next Och’Idoma. The statement noted that according to the report by the selection committee, out of this number, 28 members of the total number were present at the selection exercise. The quorum for the selection is two-third of the membership of the committee. “The committee reported that five persons presented themselves for the selection exercise. Four were nominated. In the course of dialogue for a consensus candidate, one person stepped down. Three persons went into the election/selection. After the voting process was concluded, a candidate polled 1 vote, another polled 8 votes and the winner polled 19 votes. This shows that the selection process was very transparent, free and fair. At least nine voters did not vote for the winner and none of them can prove that he is victimised. The allegations by the Ochetoha K’Idoma against the governor are therefore baseless, unfounded and unnecessary. The authors of the statement, therefore, acted in error to have dragged the name of the governor into what is entirely a legal process based on the Benue State Chieftaincy Laws of 2016,” he stated.