•Say 407 persons killed, 332 abducted Michael Olugbode The people of Chibok Local Government Area of Borno State have cried out to President Muhammadu Buhari and the Borno State government to adequately protect them from Boko Haram incursions, alleging that 407 indigenes were killed while 332 others were abducted in 72 attacks by the terrorists. The indigenes also decried the neglect of their area by the government, which has left them vulnerable to attacks. Chibok came into the international limelight on April 14, 2014, when Boko Haram fighters invaded a school in their community and abducted over 270 schoolgirls. Addressing a press conference in Abuja yesterday, Kibaku Area Development Association (KADA), an association of people from Chibok Local Government Area, lamented that since the terrorists launched the attacks over a decade ago, their area has been attacked more than 72 times, with over 407 persons killed. The group also lamented that over 332 persons have been abducted in the council, with more than 20 churches, several houses and businesses burnt, vehicles stolen and grains barns burnt or destroyed by the terrorist group. Speaking at the press conference, the National President of KADA, Mr Dauda Iliya, said: “We are on behalf of the entire Chibok community, using this medium to once again call on President Buhari to rescue Chibok community, an ethnic nationality, from total annihilation by the Boko Haram terrorists. This is because since the mass abduction of our 276 daughters in April 2014, wherein 57 escaped (on their own) we still have 110 of them unaccounted for. “The parents and the community have continued to be subjected to persistent and sustained attacks, killings, abductions, maiming, arsons and other myriads of criminality without adequate government protection. Chibok has been from all intents and purposes abandoned to its own devices by all layers of government in Nigeria. “Right from late 2012 up to this time, the statistics of the state of damage and destruction of lives and property inflicted on the community presents a worrisome and pathetic picture,” he explained The Chibok community alleged that: “From late 2018 to date, the frequency of attacks and level of destruction have escalated and are simply alarming. Just this year (2022) alone, Kautikari (the second largest town in the Chibok area) was attacked on January 14 with five girls abducted, three persons killed, many houses and churches burnt, etc. In sustaining their carnage, Piyemi, another big town in the Chibok area, was attacked on January 20 with 19 persons (mostly girls) abducted and one person, the vigilante leader, beheaded!” According to the indigenes’ spokesman, the town was practically razed down with virtually all the recently harvested agricultural produce completely burnt down and/or looted. “Chibok is predominantly an agrarian community and the whole year’s harvests have been lost to these sustained and targeted attacks posing serious food security concerns in the community. “We call on all well-meaning Nigerians and Mr President in particular, to rise to the occasion and urgently save our people from total annihilation and starvation,” he said. They also called on the state government to synergise with security forces in confronting the menace to end the sustained carnage on the people of Chibok and facilitate the return of the remaining 110 of their daughters abducted in 2014 and numerous others subsequently abducted at different times. They also called for the immediate setting up of IDP Camps in Chibok town and the provision of Chibok with a skills acquisition centre to avoid imminent hunger/starvation. They also requested the federal government to order the deployment of more military personnel to Chibok to halt the continuous attacks on the community. The Chibok indigenes also pleaded with the Borno State Governor, Prof. Babagana Zulum to do more in organising and helping the people of the area in securing the state in general and Chibok in particular from attacks. They condoled with the Nigerian Army for the loss of gallant soldiers including the very brave Brigadier General BK Zirkushu who lost their lives in Askira, while protecting the people against the invading terrorists on November 13, 2021.