David-Chyddy Eleke in Awka International Breweries, makers of Hero beer has unveiled an electronics LED board tagged – Board of Heroes – to celebrate its consumers in the south-east. The company said the electronics board with the hashtag ‘Ibu Odogwu’ was situated at its Onitsha plant in celebration and acknowledgement of its consumers’ exploits and achievements during the year. Speaking at the unveiling ceremony, Marketing Director, International Breweries Plc, Tolulope Adedeji expressed the brand’s happiness at celebrating its consumers through the ‘Board of Heroes’. Speaking during an event for the unveiling of the board in Onitsha, she explained: “This is the first of its kind where the brand will exclusively launch a high impact LED billboard to celebrate and showcase its consumers.” She added: “Today, Hero Lager is unveiling this unique board right at our plant here in Onitsha to celebrate our loyal consumers, most of whom are south-easterners who are either based here in the East or in other parts of the country from where they arrive to see their families during the festive season. “Hero recognises their hard work and staying power despite their collective and individual challenges and has chosen to unveil this LED Board to honour and show them that we see them and appreciate their heroism in the year 2021.” The imposing LED Board, which is situated right inside the company’s premises could be seen from Onitsha city, while approaching the Niger Bridge, and which also displays customers who post their pictures of social media, tagging the company with the hashtag #I Bu Odogwu. On his part, Marketing Manager, Hero Lager, Margaret Igabali who spoke to journalists said: “The consumer is at the heart of everything the brand does. This year alone, we have initiated and executed the Aha Gi Efula and Igba Boi Campaigns which were focused on promoting the legacy and particularly the Igbo Apprenticeship System. “And now, we are paying tribute to the resilient spirit of consumers with the Board of Heroes where we will feature Hero’s consumers.”