In a few days, the Afrobeats Hall of Fame induction ceremony will honour the artistry and the contributions made by those who have played major roles in the dissemination and creation of the art of African music. Slated for February 26, 2022, at The Amore Garden, Lekki, Lagos, the ceremony which is packaged by Estilo Davida, a ground-breaking Nigerian lifestyle, tourism and hospitality consultancy firm, aims to inspire and engage Africans through the power of African music, building a serious level of credibility, respect and acceptance across Africa and the world to celebrate the historic and cultural significance of African music. For its inaugural class, there are three categories. The first category known as The Early Influencers include musicians like Tunde King, Onitsha Native Orchestra, E.C Arinze, Victor Olaiya, Mamman Chata and Bobby Benson. It is followed by The Mid-Influencer category. This group comprises musicians from the 60s and 70s. Such music influencers include (Chief Osita Osadebe, Fela Anikulapo Kuti, Rex Lawson, Sikiru Ayinde Barrister, King Sunny Ade, Dan Maraya Jos, Peacock Guitar Band International and Bala Miller. The last category known as the Modern Influencer looks at musicians from the 90s to 2000s period. Unlike the previous categories, this category allows the public to vote. Musicians included in this category are Innocent ‘2Baba’ Idibia, Onyeka Onwenu, Femi Kuti, Daddy Showkey, among others. There is also the non-performing category that will recognise personalities like
Kenny Ogungbe, Dayo Adeneye, Olisa Adibua, Obi Asika, Sunday Are and Eddie Lawan; while Tony Odili, Jimmy Amu, King Sunny Ade, Rex Lawson, Onyeka Onwenu, Ebenezer Obey, Chief Osita Osadebe, Fela Anikulapo Kuti will be getting special recognition for “Lifetime Achievements” in the music industry. A string of hybrid events is planned for the ceremony, spanning from headline tribute live performances to art exhibitions, creating an immersive and exotic experience designed to meet the entertainment cravings of Africans. Artists that have been confirmed for the event include Wizkid, Shina Peters, Omawunmi, Flavour, D’banj who will also be co-hosting with comedian Bovi.