Nosa Alekhuogie
The US government has said it is committed to supporting anti-corruption initiatives and collaborative efforts that prevent graft, strengthen investigation and prosecution of corruption, promote accountability and transparency, and empower reformers. To achieve this, the US Consulate General in collaboration with the Inter-Religious Coalition Against Corruption in Nigeria, recently launched ReportMagoMago.com, a unique web-based portal that leverages citizen engagement to fight corruption. Led by Bishop Emmanuel Gospel Isong and Imam Shefiu Abdulkareem Majemu, the Inter-Religious Coalition Against Corruption in Nigeria was formed in 2016 by Muslim and Christian religious leaders with the primary goal of addressing how faith communities could take a leading role in anti-corruption advocacy in Nigeria. During the event, participants received a guided demonstration of the ReportMagoMago.com platform. In addition, political, traditional and religious leaders, members of law enforcement, judicial officers and civil society representatives renewed their commitment to the fight against corruption. Speaking during the launch of the website in Lagos, US Consul General, Claire Pierangelo, explained that ReportMagoMago.com puts the power to report corruption in the hands of the Nigerian people. Pierangelo urged Nigerians to demonstrate their commitment to the fight against corruption by making use of the innovative online platform which seeks to address the daily instances of corruption faced by millions of Nigerians. “Countering corruption is not only a key concern in Nigeria but also a core U.S. national security priority for the Biden Administration. Growth and development, consistent with the richness and strength of Nigeria, depend on a new narrative and a culture where corruption has no place,” Pierangelo said. Pierangelo expressed optimism that the new initiative would encourage Nigerians affected by corruption to feel empowered to share their experiences and spark a new movement in citizen engagement in fighting the scourge that has hampered development and stifled prosperity in the country.