*El-Rufai explains why govs were divided over convention date Deji Elumoye Governor Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna State on Tuesday disclosed that the 22 governors of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) were sharply divided over the actual date to be chosen for the national convention of the party. El-Rufai, who spoke with newsmen after he, along with his colleagues in the Progressive Governors Forum (PGF), held a 15-minute meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari at the State House, Abuja, emphasised that the APC governors were divided over the timing of the national convention as some were of the belief that there were many issues left unresolved. The governor, who was responding to a question, said: “Yes, we were divided. We were divided over the timing of the convention, okay. There were some governors that felt that we should put off the convention until we resolve all the Congress’ issues in some states,. “As you know, in some states, these matters are even in court. So, some governors held the view that we should wait until all these are resolved. And this is not borne out of any agenda or selfishmess. It is just a realistic proposition to avoid us violating any laws or putting our party structures of elected candidates in danger. “So yes, there were differences in opinion about timing. Some of us are saying the Constitution allows us to have convention even if three or four states have issues that are unresolved, while others are saying no, let us finish all the reconciliations and we do this convention. After all, there is no time limit for the convention as long as we do it before the time for the primaries. “So, that was the difference. This is what the media has called divided governors. “In a democratic setting, there is no way you can have 22 governors plus the deputy governor of Anambra state agreeing on any issue. We can have differences. “But after our meeting of last night, to deliberate on the proposal by the national caretaker committee, and our briefing with Mr. President today, we’re all on the same page.” The Kaduna Governor also disclosed that the APC had agreed on a zoning formula that will swap offices held between north and south. By the arrangement, all offices that were occupied by northerners in the last eight years, will go to the south and vice versa in the coming dispensation. El-Rufai affirmed that agreement had been reached on zoning formula saying “we have agreed a zoning formula for all the six geo-political zones. Essentially, northern zone will have the positions the south have had in the last eight years. And vice versa. “It is a very simple, equitable and fair formula. “We will now go back and consult at the zonal level and look at the positions that are available and the process of the convention preparation we start in earnest. “So, by the grace of God, on the 26th of March, we would have done our national convention.” Also speaking, Chairman of the Progressives Governors Forum and governor of Kebbi state, Atiku Bagudu, revealed that President Buhari was in favour of consensus to select candidates for party offices. He said: “On Consensus, Mr. President reminded us that we have produced a number of national chairmen by consensus; Baba Akande emerged as the pioneer chairman of the party by consensus; His Excellency John Oyegun emerged by consensus; His Excellency Adams Oshiomhole emerged by consensus. “So, he is a believer in consensus as one of the options of producing leadership, and he urged us to explore consensus, so that we can generate list. “While recognizing in that many people who have indicated interest are equally competent, but knowing that just one person will occupy the office, consensus is part of our Constitution and urged us to work towards consensus. “And the governors I have said earlier have also been working to ensure that as part of equitable arrangement, zoning and consensus are incorporated. We have done that at the lower levels, and even at the national level it’s almost certain that we will achieve it. “Then, the date of the convention, the caretaker committee briefed us yesterday of their meeting and the proposed March 26, 2022. And today, the governors informed Mr. President that we have had that we have had the briefing from the caretaker committee and we are supportive of their position.” Bagudu explained that even though the planned zonal congresses of the APC is not provided for in its constitution, the law is also not against the process. His words: “On proposed zonal congresses not in the constitution, I think there has been so much debate. Yesterday (Monday), there was a statement to the effect that even the letter that has gone out was withdrawn. “So, zonal congresses are not explicitly stated in the constitution, particularly how you do zonal congresses. And we have in the past done them with national convention, but nothing again in the Constitution stops them from being done outside the national convention. But the final form will be decided, given the input we have provided.” Asked if the APC governors are divided, the Kebbi Governor said: “Are governor divided? Not at all. The 22 governors of the APC are united. We are in total support of Mr. President, we are appreciative of his leadership, we commend him for his leadership, we are appreciative of the sacrifice of the national caretaker, and extraordinary convention planning committee. And we thanked them to the successes recorded under them. Our party like I said, is greater and stronger, with more members by the day.” On his part, Chairman of Northern Governors Forum and Plateau state governor, Simon Lalong, stated categorically that the ruling party will not collapse at the end of President Buhari’s era. According to him: “I think that from the progress report, read by our chairman, and from several assumptions, and also several reports, that we’re seeing what tremendous efforts the federal government is doing. And again, we’re already going around commissioning projects here and there in all the various states. “There is no doubt although you are not specific as to which reason will make us not to come back again. But as far as we’re concerned based on assessment, and based on what the federal government is doing tremendously, there is every hope that this party, this government will move beyond our president and I think that is his efforts, and that’s what he has been saying that by grace of God, this government will move beyond his tenure.” 19 of the 22 APC governors were in attendance at the meeting held at the Council Chambers which also had in attendance Vice President Yemi Osinbajo; Secretary to Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, and Chief of Staff to the President, Prof Ibrahim Gambari. They governors include those of Yobe, Ekiti, Ebonyi, Jigawa, Cross River, Kaduna, Lagos, Borno, Niger and Gombe. Others are governors of Osun, Kebbi, Anambra dep, Nasarawa, Kwara, Kano, Imo, Kogi, Ogun, and Plateau states.