Global soccer  It is not uncommon to see foreign players of Nigerian heritage playing for senior national men’s team; as a matter of fact, the list is endless. But for the first time, the country’s female national team-Super Falcons – is attracting an Anglo-Nigerian player in its fold. Leicester City captain Ashleigh Plumptre, in spite of having starred for England at the youth level over 30 times decided to play for country of her ancestry, a decision that had led her to her roots as she is already perfecting her juju music dance steps, while ‘moi moi’ is now one of her favourite meals Leicester City captain, Ashleigh Plumptre has never hidden her ambition to play for Nigeria at senior international level – if the West African country came calling. Despite being born in England to British parents and represented the Three Lioness 30 times at youth level. But she qualified to play for the Super Falcons through her paternal grandfather, who was a Nigerian. Though the former England youth international had never considered that her Nigerian heritage would lead to a call-up to play for the Super Falcons – who she made her debut for penultimate week and helped the them beat Ivory Coast 3-0 aggregate to qualify for the women’s AFCON slated for Morocco.
But then again, a career of any sort in football was not something she envisioned. “When I was younger, my dream was never to be a professional footballer,” she told BBC East Midlands Today. “Football has pushed me beyond my boundaries.”
It’s because of her involvement in the game that she has explored her ancestry – something she admits she previously “never delved into much”.
Plumptre is mixed heritage and proud. She is eligible to play for Nigeria through her paternal grandfather. In January, she was cleared by FIFA to play for Nigeria and made her senior debut in their Africa Women’s Cup of Nations (AWCON) qualifying play-off first-leg victory against the Ivory Coast last week.
The Leicester-born star says she “grew up British” but added that she got a “great sense of pride” when she first travelled to Nigeria to meet up with her new international team-mates. “It’s always been an assumption that I’m white,” said Plumptre.
“I get a lot of messages and people question my heritage a lot, but I can’t necessarily blame them. It comes down to education.
“What people see is what they think. People don’t want to have the conversation or want to consider anything deeper than what they see.
“It’s putting a marker down. It’s not just what you predict a Nigerian to be. For me, I know the importance of representing something bigger than me.
“I’m representing the mixed-race community and especially for the younger ones coming through. You don’t have to look a certain way or be told you are a certain way, you can feel it and you can be it.” Plumptre knows her experience is a personal one. Her younger sister, who has a darker complexion, is also exploring her African roots.
“My sister asked me if I’ve ever had anything racist said to me and part of me felt guilty because my answer was ‘no’. There is a feeling of helplessness when in these conversations with my sister. “I want to empower her and in that conversation she wanted comfort in knowing that I had gone through something similar, but I couldn’t give her that.
“When people first questioned my heritage it shocked me. But how could I let that affect me when I’m still getting the opportunity? My sister, she can hear things which are way worse and because of that she may not get the same opportunities as me.”
Plumptre made her Women’s Super League, WSL debut as a 16-year-old with Notts County, but her childhood aspirations of one day going to medical school and becoming a doctor saw her move to the United States in 2016. Her experience with the Magpies, which included being on the bench for the first ever Women’s FA Cup final at Wembley, is something she says she “will never forget”.
But it is in the US that she says her career was truly transformed. “I was pretty much taught to be a defender while out there, which was a big transition as I’d only ever played as an attacking player,” she said.
After graduating with a degree in human biology from the University of Southern California, she decided to return to English football in December 2019, joining a fast-rising and ambitious Leicester City as they pushed for promotion to the WSL for the first time. “I followed the women’s team when younger but they were always in a really low league,” Plumptre said. “Growing up I was always a fan, but I recognised that badge as LCFC not LCFC Women. I never expected to play for the senior side.”
Aged 21, that changed as she signed her first professional deal with the Foxes and promotion to the top flight as Championship title winners followed in her first full season at the club in 2020-21. The priority now, she says, is to keep the club in the WSL.
“Signing for Leicester was everything I wanted it to be,” said Plumptre. “I knew when I finished university in America I wanted to be somewhere that I really cared about.
“Leicester is the team I grew up supporting, it’s my home, it’s where I started playing football and went to school. For me it meant more to represent something bigger than me.” Plumptre showed off her dance steps as she rocked to King Sunny Ade’s music at her initiation.
Plumptre is among the few new stars in the Super Falcons squad, and as customary, each player was asked to perform her initiation song.
The Leicester City Women’s star then chose to dance to a song from King Sunny Ade. It should not come as a surprise, though, as she grew up listening to the songs of the legendary musician. While jollof rice holds a special place in her menu, for Plumptre nothing beats moi-moi-a native dish made from milled beans.
Leicester City Women have celebrated the Super Falcons defender who made quite an impression in her competitive debut for the Super Falcons of Nigeria at the Moshood Abiola Stadium penultimate Friday.
Leicester wrote on their women’s Twitter handle: “A win and clean sheet for @ashplumptre on her Nigeria debut!