Deji Elumoye in Abuja Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) in the country have called on President Muhammadu Buhari to keep to his words and sign the Electoral Act Amendment Bill which was reworked last month by the National Assembly without further delay. According to the CSOs, the president was emphatic in a national television interview in January, 2022, that he would sign the bill if the National Assembly rework the proposed legislation and expand the procedure for nomination of candidates. The CSOs under the aegis of Civil Society Partners on Electoral Reform recalled that on January 31st, 2022, the National Assembly had transmitted the Electoral Bill 2022 to the President for assent after expeditiously reworking the proposed legislation to meet the president’s expectations. The CSO partners, therefore, believed that it had become expeditious for the president to assent to the Electoral Bill 2022, on or before February 22, 2022, if the dates fixed for the 2023 general elections by INEC must be met. The partners in a statement yesterday by the Executive Director, Adopt A Goal for Development Initiative, Ariyo-Dare Atoye, and endorsed by Centre for Liberty, Raising New Voices and Youth and Students Advocates for Development Initiative (YSAD), said they were praying that the president woul break the deadlock on the electoral bill and reckon with history. According to the CSOs: “We hope that the President Buhari and his aides have seen the trending video of the commitment he made to sign the electoral bill based on conditions that have been met by the National Assembly. “We hope that the president will rise above sentiment, petty politics and the misadvice of his Attorney General, to honour his words and protect his name. We make bold to say that the two clauses on Consensus and Resignation of Political Appointee are in tandem with best practices and Nigeria’s evolving political economy.” The groups emphasised that the executive has the prerogative to propose further amendments to the Electoral Bill 2022, after assent has been granted, like he did in the case of the Petroleum Industry Act and 2022 Appropriation Act. The CSOs also advised the president to allow his bitter experience for approaching the courts on three consecutive occasions over faulty elections to propel him to sign the electoral bill and leave the country’s electoral process better than he met it. “While the president has been condemning the activities coup plotters in other countries, we sincerely hope that here in Nigeria he will sign the electoral act and help to avert those things that made democracy to become distasteful in those countries. “Democratic watchers home and abroad may not be wrong to interpret the failure of the president to sign electoral bill as a plot to supplant the democracy in Nigeria. There is no longer any excuse tenable enough to prevent the signing of this bill. “The president must not allow the enormous resources invested by the lawmakers and the people in producing this bill to be wasted,” the statement added.