Duro Ikhazuagbe Nigerian international, Emmanuel Dennis, grabbed an all-important match winner at Aston Villa to boost Watford hope they could still escape relegation from the English Premier League. Dennis netted his eighth goal of the season when he hit target in the 78th minute to give Watford the 1-0 win. The lone winner was Dennis’ first goal in almost two months after last scoring in Watford’s 4-1 home loss against West Ham United on December 28, 2021. That was shortly before Dennis declined to represent the Super Eagles at the Africa Cup of Nations in Cameroon. Prior to the game against Aston Villa, Watford had gone five straight games without scoring. Dennis’ Nigerian teammates William Troost-Ekong and Samuel Kalu were unused substitutes for the game. Watford still remain bottom in the league table on 16 points six points from safety. Elsewhere, Liverpool came from a goal down at Anfield to defeat Norwich City 3-1. The win means Liverpool now on 57 points are just six points behind leaders Manchester City who lost at home 2-3 to Tottenham Hotspur. Norwich took a shock lead on 48 minutes through Milot Rashica but Sadio Mane equalized for the Reds on 64 minutes. Mohamed Salah then put Liverpool ahead on 67 minutes before Luis Diaz made it 3-1 on 81 minutes. In the clash between Manchester City and Tottenham, Harry Kane’s stoppage-time goal gave Hotspur a stunning victory in a chaotic finale at Etihad Stadium. City thought they had rescued a point moments earlier when Riyad Mahrez converted a penalty awarded after a VAR review, but there was another twist to come and Kane, predictably, provided it. The Spurs striker, whom City had tried to sign in the summer, rose highest to nod home Dejan Kulusevski’s cross in the 95th minute and spark wild celebrations from the travelling fans. It was a dramatic end to a pulsating match that had already seen Spurs pegged back twice, with City running out of time to find a third equaliser. Tottenham’s first goal came after only four minutes, with Son Heun-min beating the offside trap and squaring the ball for Kulusevski to score on his first start for the club.