Seriki Adinoyi in Jos All Progressive Congress (APC) primary election to pick a candidate for bye election for Jos North/Bassa federal constituency was yesterday declared inconclusive amidst controversies. The election slated for 9 am on Tuesday did not start until about 12 midnight, and ran through to Wednesday evening when the election was eventually declared inconclusive by the Chairman of Electoral Committee, Rt. Hon. Abu Ajia Saje. He stated that at the end of the exercise, two candidates, Hon. Suleimain Kwande and Hon. Aku Abbey got 433 votes each prompting the Electoral Committee to declare the exercise inconclusive. Before the declaration of the results, supporters of Kwande and those of Abbey had taken to social media posting fictitious results and celebrating the victory of their candidates. At the declaration of results, Abbey, a former Commissioner for Commerce under Governor Simon Lalong, who resigned to contest the election, raised an observation that 27 of his votes were not added to his results. He said his agents had sent the authentic results to him before they were declared. Also claiming victory, Kwande, who had previously occupied the same seat for eight years, said he defeated Abbey with a wide margin, but that some powers tried to upturn the result, calling on APC national leaders to intervene. Kwande said: “I don’t know how it would be a tie, maybe it’s a miracle or not but as far as I am concerned, I won this election squarely. I knew what I was up against and the forces that are against me. “Nobody can force me to do what I don’t want to do. I am highly disappointed; I am not happy that I have been part of the party (APC) that I have helped to build and now it’s trying to do this to me. It is sad and unfortunate.” Announcing the results after the cast of votes, the Chairman of Electoral Committee said that at the end of the exercise, Hon. Suleimain Kwande and Hon. Abbey Aku got 344 votes each prompting the Electoral Committee to declare the exercise inconclusive, stressing that the Committee would consult the National headquarters of the party and thereafter, would communicate aspirants on the next line of action. The state publicity secretary of APC, Hon Sylvanus Namang told newsmen that all the aspirants were given level playing ground which was why the processes went on free and fair, “but unfortunately we have this stalemate, and as it is, only the National secretariat of the party can resolve it, the party at the state has no say.” He said the National Secretariat is likely to order a re-run for the two aspirants. Meanwhile, other two aspirants, Mr. Lumumba Adeh and Mr. Aliu Adamu didn’t contest the results as they polled very low number of votes.