Ferdinand Ekechukwu The 16th edition of The Future Awards Africa held in Lagos, Nigeria last Sunday night recognised young Nigerians in different fields. Presented by social enterprise The Future Project, the awards celebrate outstanding young people between the ages of 18 and 31 across various fields. This year’s edition, which was hosted by actress and television host, Nancy Isime, ran under the theme, ‘Celebrating Challengers and Builders’, and honoured “trailblazers that have chosen to defy the status quo and redefine the norm in their various fields within the past year,” the organisers said. Winners of this year’s award include fast rising music star, Temilade ‘Tems’ Openiyi, and award-winning actress, Bimbo Ademoye. Tems won the TFAA 2022 prize for music, while Bimbo Ademoye won the prize for acting. The ‘Crazy Tings’ singer, who shot to international acclaim last year with her appearance on records by global stars including Wizkid and Drake, beat fellow musicians Joeboy, Fireboy DML, Ayra Starr, Ckay, Omah Lay and Bnxn, the artiste formerly known as Buju, to win the 2022 TFAA prize for music. Other winners are Tunde Onakoya of Chess2slums who won the Prize for community action; Tayo Aina won Prize for content creation, S.I Ohumu won Prize for journalism and a host of others. Also on the winning list is promising filmmaker Kayode Kasum, who won the Prize for film, Chigozie Obi won Prize for art and literature, Kennedy Ekezie won Prize for technology, and Weiz Dhurm won Prize for fashion. The Future Awards Africa rewards young talents who have made outstanding achievements on a yearly basis. This year, one of its sponsors, Infinix partnered the awards to encourage and inspire young talents to keep chasing their dreams. The brand is supporting young talents in the music industry with a cash donation to the future awards committee. Additionally, the brand would provide one year supply of Infinix devices for the winner of the music category at the Future Awards Africa. Infinix also used the platform to promote past winners of its empowerment initiatives. Twist Berry, a young up and coming musician, who won the empowerment challenge to feature Davido on a song with a video—all paid for and promoted by Infinix. Recall that the brand had last year announced Davido as its brand ambassador. Previous The Future Awards Africa winners included Wizkid, who won the 2017 prize for Young Person of the Year, as well as Davido and Burna Boy, who won the music categories in 2017 and 2019, respectively.