– Says first int’l l flight to land in Anambra airport soon David-Chyddy Eleke in Awka Anambra State governor, Chief Willie Obiano has confirmed that his wife, Mrs. Ebelechukwu Obiano, will be running for a seat in the Senate to represent Anambra North senatorial zone. There have been rumours that as the governor ends his administration on 17th March, his wife may be running for Senate, but there have been no confirmation about this. But Obiano speaking to journalists in his home in Aguleri, Anambra East Local Government Area, confirmed that his wife will be running for a seat in the Senate. Answering questions on whether he will be running for a political office once he leave as governor, Obiano said he wanted to rest after eight years in Anambra as governor. “I’m going to rest after my tenure in Anambra State. I do not need to be told that I did well for Anambra people, because I know I did well too. Sometimes, I’m impolite about this, because I know that I spent many sleepless nights to ensure that I did the many projects I did for Anambra people. “My wife is the one who will be going for Senate. She wants to run for Senate to represent Anambra North people. She is from Oyi Local Government Area, which is in Anambra North.” Earlier, the governor had conducted journalists to two of his projects, which he described as signature projects. There are the International Conference Center and the Anambra International Cargo and Passenger Airport. Obiano also revealed that in two weeks’ time, an international flight from the fleets of Ethiopian Airlines will land at the Anambra international cargo and passenger airport to confirm its international status. “This will boost agriculture, as most agricultural produce will be easily exported through the Anambra international cargo and passenger airport. “If you know me, you will accept that I’m a man associated with class, and you can see class in all the projects I did for Anambra people. The airport you see there is about the best in sub-Saharan Africa, with some of the best facilities anywhere in the world. “In terms of safety, it is the best, and has landing facilities that you can hardly find in any airport in Nigeria,” Obiano said.