James Sowole in Abeokuta An Information Technology (IT) expert, Olaniyi Ayoola, yesterday raised the alarm that some elements had been frustrating Nigeria’s Digital Addressing Platform that is capable of bringing transparency into almost everything done as a country. Ayoola, the chief executive officer of VerveTree hub, stated this while addressing a news conference to herald the 5th Edition of TechSummit Ogun 2020, with the theme: ‘Disruptive Innovation: Production and Distribution of Creative Content’. The summit, which would start today (Wednesday), will have the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Isa Pantami, as the keynote speaker. He said the Digital Addressing Platform, being worked on, if properly integrated and implemented, would solve a lot of problems and increase the Nigerian Gross Domestic Product (GDP). He said: “As beneficial as the platform will be if integrated, some elements are trying to frustrate that process because if it is implemented, it will bring transparency into almost everything we do as a country. “It will tell you where everybody lives, what they do and their environment, because it is going to link addressing with mobile numbers, and now that mobile numbers have been linked to NIN, and NIN linked to BVN. “So, there is no way you can thrive as a fraudster or a corrupt citizen if digital addressing is properly implemented. Why is Nigeria not looking at such innovations in addressing real estate, businesses and others? You will find out that some people are not sincere in taking advantage of technology to improve their livelihood. “With the platform, we don’t need census officially because if it is properly administered, it will improve everything, including our electoral system, health system, security among others. And will also block all loopholes in governance and processes. “This is one of the aspects of technology that has been implemented in other nations. In digital economy for instance, Nigeria is just implementing 10 percent of what it entails; the opportunity is endless but some elements are frustrating it for their selfish ends.” Ayoola lamented that Nigeria is not taking the full advantage of the innovation when compared with other developed nations of the world. According to him, “It is either the citizens are afraid or the government is not exhibiting enough sincerity at implementing policies towards the advancement of technology in Nigeria. He said: “As a country, we are yet to take advantage of technology to improve and grow the GDP; if you check the rate at which others nations have developed and integrated using various technology, I don’t know what the problem is with Nigeria, probably the citizens are afraid or the government is not really sincere in implementing policies towards advancing technology in Nigeria.” Ayoola challenged internet fraudsters popularly called ‘Yahoo boys’, to channel their energy towards technologically driven innovations and earn money legally rather than fleecing people to amass wealth. He noted that the same energy used in scamming people is the same energy a yahoo boy will use in advancing technology in making legitimate income.