Yinka Kolawole The Coalition for Civil Society Organisation in Nigeria, accredited to observe the recent governorship primary election of All Progressives Congress (APC) last Saturday alleged that the election fell short of acceptable international standard as it was grossly marred with irregularities. The leader of the coalition, Mr. Patrick Usman, from Centre for Development Democracy and Good Governance Nigerians, who spoke at a press Conference yesterday in Osogbo, said observers were at the 23 local government areas of the state where lack of sensitive materials, like result sheets, electoral violence, operational and logistical challenges were recorded. He said that the election was biased because party primaries are expected to be free ,fair and credible but it was not so which should be the basis for good governance. He pointed out that the primary election held last Saturday was a mockery of democracy and suppression of people’s will. He said the primary held cannot stand a scrutiny of parameters for a free and fair election. According to him, the observers’ findings during the primary election include: no accreditation in most wards where election was held; violence; over voting, refusal of committee to make party registers available before the election. Others, he said, were disenfranchisement of voters and party members as well as none availability of result sheet in most ward. The coalition of civil society, who commended the security agencies for their professionalism and civilised in handling situation at the various wards called on APC National Secretariat to investigate the irregularities reported during the election. A communique on their observation of the election,reads in part: “In majority of the wards where we visited in the affected local governments, there was no accreditation. In few places where accreditation held, it was a shambolic show, filled with pretence. Ward 15, Oyan, Odo-Otin LG, Ward 5, Apomu, Isokan LG, Ward 8, Ilesa East LG, Ward 8, Ayetoro, Osogbo LG, Ward 2, 4 and 5 also in Osogbo LG and other places are example of this irregularities. “Our team observed and note that there was generally non-availability of result sheets at the wards where we observed the election. In some cases, ordinary A4 papers and official letter head of the party were used instead. “We don’t know who is who, but there are complaints from party members that government officials who are appointed by the Governor (who is also an aspirant in the election) were used as Returning Officers instead of the officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). There was no any INEC official in all the wards. “Violence was recorded in some voting centres in some of the wards. In Osogbo, Boripe, Ede, Ilesa East and Oriade LGs, thugs were stationed at every ward and electorates were chased away from the voting centres. “Of note is disruptions of election in Ward 1 (Dispensary, Erin-Oke), 7 (Town Hall, Ikeji-Arakeji) and 9 (Afinbiokin Hall, Ipetu-Ijesa) of Oriade Local Government Area, Ward 7, Ikeji-Owena and Ward 9, Ipetu-Ijesa. There were several gunshots at Ward 7 (St. Johns Pry Sch, Loro/Roye), Ilesa, Ilesa East Local Government Area. “At Ward 6, Sabo Agbongbe, Ede, a former Chairman of Ede North Local Council Development Area, Com. Mukaila Uthman was shot by armed thugs during the primary election. Election could not hold in Gidigbo Ward 2, Post Office Area, Iwo, Iwo local government area of because of violence too. He also called on appropriate authorities and stakeholders to investigate all allegations of violence and cases of violent acts while urging that INEC should be strengthened to tackle operational and logistic issue during election. However, the civil society recommend that party primaries elections management should be enhanced while the National Assembly should introduce reform that would better guide party primaries