HighLife 2022 is turning out to be a year set for fashion in Lagos. The brilliant British-Nigerian fashion and beauty enthusiast, Mo Olowu, recently opened her makeup brand in Lagos. The brand is named Ruba Beauty and it stands on its lonesome among similarly-focused makeup outlets as it belongs to the luxury vegan and cruelty-free variety. The party that witnessed the emergence of the company had the loudest (most influential) guests around and that started things off really well. There is something about beauty and fashion that just screams symmetry and glamour! And this is what the party to launch Olowu’s Ruba Beauty consisted of. With the model, content creator, and TV personality, Kie Kie, anchoring the all-white-themed event at the Luxury Beach House, Sencillo, it was a riot of excitement, healthy competition, and grace. Olowu’s party naturally attracted some of the most successful beauty influencers in Lagos, in addition to makeup artists, models, and other representatives of the parlour of good looks and style. These included big names like the editorial make-up artist, Kazeem of Casskoncepts, a talent that has gone global with his work featured in Vogue and several other international magazines; Olabisi of Makeup by Olabisi, another big-wig that has left Nigeria’s shores with known products for Julia’s Place and a seat on the 2021/2022 US Sephora Squad, and many more. Despite the colourful ambience, Olowu made sure to make the whole thing into a refreshing experience for her guests, some of whom had to share their stories to encourage the others to trudge on and never back down. By doing so, Olowu made an impression on everyone present, an impression that even the tinkling of wine glasses and the passing of luxury makeup kits could not cover. Of course, Ruba Beauty has been a working concept since 2018 since Oluwu launched it in the UK. But who knew that someone with an academic background in Finance, HR (Human Resources), and IT (Information Technology) would turn to the beauty and fashion industry and distinguish herself? This is what the soul of passion can accomplish and why Olowu continues to shine in her endeavours.