 Sunday Aborisade in Abuja The Senate on Wednesday confirmed President Muhammadu Buhari’s five executive director-nominees for the Nigerian Midstream and Downstream Petroleum Regulatory Authority (NMDPRA). The confirmation of the nominees followed the consideration of a report by the Committee on Downstream Petroleum Sector. Those confirmed included the Executive Director, Hydrocarbon Processing Plants, Installations and Transportation Infrastructure, Francis Alabo Ogaree and the Executive Director, Health, Safety, Environment and Community, Dr. Mustapha Lamorde. Others were the Executive Director, Midstream and Downstream Gas Infrastructure, Mansur Kuliya; Executive Director, Corporate Services and Administration, Bashir Sadiq; and the Executive Director, Economic Regulations and Strategic Planning, Dr. Zainab Gobir. The Chairman of the Downstream Petroleum Sector Committee, Senator Sabo Mohammed (Jigawa South-West), said the Senate received Buhari’s request for the confirmation of the nominees on February 8. He explained that the president’s request was in accordance with the provisions of Section 34(3) of the Petroleum Industry Act, 2021. According to the lawmaker, the Act empowers the president to make appointments into the board of NMDPRA subject to the confirmation of the Senate for a period of five years and may be reappointed for second term and no more. Mohammed said that the nominees while appearing before the committee for screening, responded to a wide range of questions regarding the Petroleum Industry and measures that should be taken to reposition the industry for the benefit of the Nigerian economy. He said: “The nominees responded to the questions asked in an intellectual, factual and convincing manner. “They exhibited a high level understanding of the challenges, complexities and opportunities inherent in the Petroleum Industry. “Their knowledge and experiences will be of great benefit to the Nigerian Midstream and Downstream Petroleum Regulatory Authority and the oil and gas sector in general.” He disclosed that the committee did not receive any petition against their nominations, adding that they were cleared by the Nigeria Police Force, Department of State Services (DSS) and posses the Code of Conduct Acknowledgment slips. The five executive director-nominees were confirmed by the Senate after consideration of the report by the Committee on Petroleum Downstream Sector.