Gilbert Ekugbe The International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) has stated that Africa’s food import bill is expected to hit over $100 billion by 2025. The president, IFAD, Mr. Gilbert Houngbo, explained that continent currently imports about $70 billion of its food needs annually.
Houngbo stated this at the African Union and European Union summit in Brussels, Belgium over the weekend. This is as the World Food Programme (WFP) has revealed that the number of food insecure people has increased from 135 million to 283 million across the globe, warning that the number could spike even further. The UN food body in a statement made available on its website, added that a total of 45 million people in 43 countries are teetering on the edge of famine with overall global needs for humanitarian assistance on a clear upward trend and are now higher than ever. According to WFP, every region in the world is faced with the prospect of millions waking each day to empty plates, soaring food prices, economic downturn, ruined crops, and violent conflict knocking on their door. The Executive Director of the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP), David Beasley, said there is a ring of fire stretching around the world where conflict and climate shocks compounded by COVID and rising costs are driving millions of people to the brink of starvation threatening to increase migration and instability globally. Stressing that agriculture is at the nexus of so many of the Sustainable Development Goals. (SDGs), IFAD said the sector has not yet reached its potential to drive sustainable development in Africa. According to him, agriculture accounts for 16 per cent of Africa’s GDP, and even 27 per cent and 24 per cent in East and West Africa respectively. He added that in Africa, two-thirds of population lives in rural areas where 80 per cent of poor are concentrated, saying that every year 10 to 12 million young people enter the African labour market He pointed out that agriculture accounts for 70 per cent of global freshwater withdrawals, with women representing more than 50 per cent of the agricultural work force, but women receive less than 10 per cent of credit granted to smallholder farmers. He said, “Economic growth in agriculture is two to three times more effective at reducing poverty and food insecurity than growth generated in other sectors. My point is that in Africa, Agriculture is a huge opportunity, not only for food security and nutrition but also for economic growth, wealth creation, addressing inequalities and social justice, while protecting the environment.” He highlighted key factors vital to tapping into the opportunities agriculture offers such as advocating for the increased need to deploy technology and innovation to create modern value chains that drive progress, reduce risk, and connect smallholders to markets. He also stated the need for key stakeholders and governments across the continent to invest in technology that would support decent jobs and the stability of incomes and food production, while also making the sector more appealing to young people. “For example, mobile phone services already provide real-time weather information and market data; satellites measure soil moisture; solar panels power irrigation systems. This is how small farms can change, adapt and succeed,” he said. He added: “The COVID-19 crisis, and today’s rising energy prices, have shown why it is essential for Africa to bridge the production gap and reduce the food import bill.” He further stated the need to promote plant-based protein, saying that is key for nutrition sake as well as for reduction in CO2 emission and nature conservation. “This area is clearly conducive for sustaining the greening effort of the Great Green Wall initiative, as well as a great opportunity to support agribusiness initiative led by African youth and rural Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs),” he said. Meanwhile, the WFP in a statement added that its assistance which is a lifeline for families in emergencies has to grow together with an increased stress on changing lives through building resilience so that more poor people on the brink of hunger are not pushed over the edge. Such work stabilizes communities in particularly precarious places and helps them better to survive sudden shocks without losing all their assets. “We have a ring of fire circling the earth now from the Sahel to South Sudan to Yemen, to Afghanistan, all the way around to Haiti and Central America. “If we do not address the situation immediately over the next 9 months we will see famine, we will see destabilisation of nations and we will see mass migration. If we don’t do something we are going to pay a mighty big price,”it said. “In the next few weeks there is a risk of further cuts. These come at the worst possible time as Yemenis deal with the consequences of a serious escalation in fighting and continued economic deterioration,” WFP said. “We averted famine and catastrophe in 2021 and 2022 because nations stepped up. We thought COVID would be behind us by 2022, but it only recycled again, exacerbating, and creating economic catastrophes among the poorest countries around the world,” Beasley said. WFP has the solutions and we have got the programmes to stop this crisis, we just need the money, otherwise nations around the world will pay for it a thousand-fold,” WFP warned. The United Nations World Food Programme is the world’s largest humanitarian organization, saving lives in emergencies and using food assistance to build a pathway to peace, stability and prosperity for people recovering from conflict, disasters and the impact of climate change.