Michael Olugbode in Maiduguri The Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) has asked Borno State Government to urgently adopt and implement the Administration of Criminal Justice Act (ACJA) to checkmate insurgency crimes committed by minors in the state. The NBA President, Mr. Olumide Akpata, stated that the bill would eliminate inconsistency and unpredictability in criminal trials at a public forum with stakeholders by the NBA and the Mac-Arthur project on the domestication and implementation of the ACJA held in Maiduguri yesterday. Akpata, who was represented by the NBA National Publicity Secretary, Dr. Rapuluchukwu Nduka, noted the importance of ACJA in the criminal justice system and stated that it is very important that the state makes available copies of the law to the general public for better appreciation and understanding of the law. He said: “There are a lot of complaints that things are not going well in the judiciary system, the time for trials in court, we are trying to sort those things out, the main concern of this particular gathering is the ACJA. “The federal government has enacted acts that will help speedy trials and every other thing that would endanger trust in the system, of course, this will reduce crimes rates in this state if it is adopted and implement.” On his part, the Chairman NBA Maiduguri Branch, Mr. Abba Umate, stressed the importance of ACJA, while optimistic that the state assembly would give speedy passage to the bill so that the rate of crimes is brought to minimal levels. He noted that “the crimes are on the high side, the crimes these young people committed is very alarming so what we need to do is to ensure the bill that is the subject matter here today is passed and implemented. “If they are charged to court without due delay and they are convicted so the rate of the crimes will be reduced. I think this is what needed now is to see that this Administration of Criminal Justice act is speedily passed and duly implemented in Borno State,” he said. An Assistant Commissioner of Police, Borno State, Ahmad Bello while collaborating with others lamented the high crime rate perpetrated by young people in the state, urging concerned authorities to roll out educative programmes and the right knowledge. He said: “There’s what we call post-insurgency crimes, the fact that restoration of civil authority is taking place and most these young children have been exposed to violent crime and criminality. “This is the major problem that is bedeviling the state. As you know that joblessness could lead to crimes and we need to roll out seminars and enlightening programmes for young people.”