Blessing Ibunge in Port Harcourt A Rivers State indigenous oil magnet and former governorship candidate in 2015, Dumo Lulu-Briggs, has declared his intention to run for the 2023 governorship election in the state.
The business magnet is the first person to declare the intention to succeed the sitting Governor Nyesom Wike, at the end of his tenure in May 2023. Lulu-Briggs, who is also a traditional leader in Abonema, Akuku-Toru Local Government Area assured residents of the state of development, inclusiveness and improved life for every member of the state if elected as governor in the coming election. He made the declaration yesterday while speaking with journalists at the Port Harcourt International Airport, Omagwa, Ikwerre Local Government Area. Lulu-Briggs said his administration would end the lingering feud between Governor Nyesom Wike and his predecessor, Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi.
Though Lulu-Briggs did not disclose which political platform he would be contesting from, he insisted that he would run for the position in the state. He said, “For me, there is work to do, the work I have been trying to do over the years, I am still strong, I will have to give my very best at all times, so by the special grace of God, I will run. “The platform for now is Rivers State, we need to try and have a state that is a safe place for everybody, so if Dumo is running, everybody is certain that we can have a state where both Nyesom Wike and Amaechi can dine together.
“We need that kind of political peace, the kind of development I am going to bring in Rivers State, under my government, there will be calm, there will be development.” Lulu-Briggs said that the reason he was the first in the state to make his intention public might be because intending aspirants are still consulting stakeholders. “I believe why nobody has declared for the governorship race in the state is because they are still consulting. “Rivers State is blessed with many capable hands and I am very certain that in no time, they will begin to express their interests in their numbers,” he said. Speaking on his vision for the state he said, “what I envision is a state where the socials are strong and can hold all our aspirations, and provide jobs on its own, my vision is a state where there is food on the table, where there is education for all.
“We want to look at the state beyond oil, because if you look at all the indicators, we have asked all the questions, economists have told us, economy earners for the state is not even oil and gas, but tourism, ITC and agriculture, there are whole lot we have not yet done,” he said. On the ongoing agitation for power shift both at the federal and state levels, the Lulu-Briggs joined the call for political parties to zone presidency position to the Southern region and Rivers governorship slot to the riverine area in 2023. “I have always been an advocate for national cohesion even at the state level. Rivers state is a microcosm of Nigeria, what’s good in Rivers State is also very good in Nigeria. “Definitely power has to come to the Southern region this time around, I don’t see any other argument we can present this time around for it not to come to the South. “There are credible Nigerians in various parts of the country, very capable hands you find them in the South-east, South-west and South-south, so I don’t see why there should be any argument this time after eight years of it residing in the North that it shouldn’t move down to the South. “Also here in Rivers State, I think it is time for the riverine to have a shot and of course, we have good talents across all the ethnic nationalities in the state, including the riverine areas,” he said.