Nseobong Okon-Ekong writes that the voters education campaign, GoNigeria, initiated by philanthropist and investment banker of repute, Mr. Atedo Peterside on his ANAP Foundation platform is targeted at firing the political ambition of Nigerian youths Despite Nigeria’s diverse culture and people, one thing is certain – the strength of its youth population which makes up citizens between ages 18 – 29. According to the 2019 National Youth Policy, Nigerian youths were classified as people between 15 – 29 years. With a youth population of 27 percent, as reported by statista.com, Nigeria is more youthful than each of the top three global economic powers – the US, China, and Japan. However, this has not been reflected significantly in the country’s political stability, economic prosperity, and even social unity. Policies made by successive administrations have not put the youth in perspective which has made youths nonchalant in developmental issues thereby seeing the youths exhibit a lack of trust in the country’s political process. We are now bedeviled by a youthful population struggling to make their voices heard due to a lack of consideration and future thinking leaders, which has led to consistent failure to deliver on youth-centered policies that reflect the progress and prosperity of the people. A country full of energy with a greater percentage of its population being youths should have a future built on strength, hard work, innovation, and creativity. When evidence-based youth policies are made, they help to accelerate youth-related objectives in the country which reduces vices in society as its advantages are obvious – job creation, socio-economic development, human empowerment, etc. Globally, there are over 1.2 billion young people aged 15 to 24 years, accounting for 16 percent of the global population. The active engagement of youth in sustainable development in all spheres of life is central to achieving sustainable, inclusive, and stable societies, and to averting the worst threats and challenges to societal development, including the impacts of climate change, unemployment, poverty, gender inequality, conflict, and migration. While all the mentioned factors are critical to youth development, concerted efforts and education is crucial to making the youths key players in countries’ leadership processes in general, and Nigeria in particular. However sordid the circumstances have been, the last decade has seen a shift in orientation and a new re-awakening among the youths across the globe and in Nigeria. There is more clamor for justice among nations as well as peace, security, healthcare, etc. We cannot over-emphasize the fact that there is a growing consciousness in today’s youth in Nigeria, with an increased understanding and care about development which is inspired by the chance to drive meaningful change, peace, and prosperity, having seen the rot and ineptitude of successive political leadership. It is a new world era, consciousness is on the rise and the youths are more than eager to use their skills to better their communities and help those in greatest need. The 2020 EndSARS protest demonstrated the youth’s restiveness to a large extent – from a clamor to end police brutality, they became more expressive with demands from the current political leadership. More youths are getting aware that their decisions to participate in the political process and inclusiveness will determine the future they desire. Even though the government responded by proscribing SARS and compensating victims through state-inaugurated panels, the impact of that exercise birthed a new level of consciousness among Nigerians, especially the youths. Now, the youths believe that if they use their voices collectively in the electoral process, their impact will be felt. To do this, however, requires a point of convergence and re-orientation of what needs to be done. This is exactly what Anap Foundation, founded by Nigeria’s philanthropist and investment banker of repute, Mr. Atedo Peterside, is now addressing. The Anap Foundation has kicked started an enlightenment campaign themed GoNigeria, a campaign to sensitize Nigerian youths to participate actively in the electoral processes leading to the election of visionary leaders come 2023. Anap Foundation is partnering with the Independent National Electoral Commission [INEC] and other advocates, celebrity ambassadors, corporate bodies as well as volunteers in ensuring a huge success is attained in encouraging the youths in understanding that their votes is a transformative power in enthroning the right leaders at the country’s helm of affairs and the campaign has no doubt received some boost judging by the support of these prominent Nigerians collaborators from all walks of life. The initial advocates are Aisha Yesufu, Active Nigerian Citizen; Nuruddeen Lemu, Director, Research & Training, the Da’wah Institute, Islamic Education Trust; Dike Chukwumerije, Poet; Folarin Falana (Falz), Musician, Actor, and Entertainer; Atedo Peterside, Founder of Stanbic IBTC Bank + President & Founder, Anap Foundation; Bishop Matthew Kukah, Catholic Church, Sokoto; Arunma Oteh, Chairperson, Royal African Society and Scholar, University of Oxford; Hamzat Lawal, Founder, Connected Development (CODE); Tomiwa Aladekomo, National Chair, Youth Party; Osita Chidoka, Founder UnlockNaija, Former Minister, Aviation & Corps Marshal FRSC; and Dr. Tony Rapu, Medical Doctor and Pastor. Others include ‘Yemi Adamolekun, Executive Director, EiE Nigeria; Muhammad Ali Pate, Professor of Public Health Leadership at Harvard, Former Minister and former World Bank Global Director for Health; HH Muhammad Sanusi II, 14th Emir of Kano & Grand Khalifa of Tijjaniya Order; Dr. Salamatu Hussaini Suleiman, Former Minister, Former Commissioner, Political Affairs, Peace and Security; Kashim Ibrahim-Imam, Chairman, Tertiary Education Trust Fund [TETFUND] and President, King’s College Old Boys Association; Ayisha Osori, Author; and Ibrahim Dahiru Waziri, Former DMD NLNG/GED of NNPC + House of Rep. member in 1983 at age 25. Thanks to the transformative power of such a foundation using new technologies and education to inspire young people and the youths to participate in the electoral process by registering to vote, collecting their permanent voters’ cards (PVCs), and putting their talents to use in the field of development that will drive real change in order to achieve a country of their dreams. Given the numbers of the youth population in Nigeria, if they participate in the electoral process, they can achieve their dream of Nigeria. It is on this premise that the President and Founder of Anap Foundation, Atedo Peterside, urged the youths which consist over 60 percent of the Nigerian voting populace to endeavor to register and collect their Personal Voter’s Card (PVC) before June 2022 ahead of next year’s elections, as stipulated by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). According to the philanthropist, participating in the electoral process is a call to all youths instead of being instigated by the old and discontented old people in the society. He, therefore, asserted that “a situation whereby the youths do not show interest in the country’s electoral process would mean conceding their birthrights to politicians, whose policies may not reflect the collective objective of the populace, especially young Nigerians.’’ Perhaps, what is most fascinating about the GoNigeria initiative is the caliber of personalities driving it. The foundation is unique, and exclusively driven by credible Nigerians mentioned earlier. This confers credibility on the foundation and is therefore supported by all, especially in a year preceding general elections. One of such personalities is HH Muhammad Sanusi II, 14th Emir of Kano & Grand Khalifa of Tijjaniya Order, who admonished educated young Nigerians to choose leaders with integrity and capacity to govern them in the upcoming 2023 general elections. He asserted that it is through active youth presence in the nation’s electoral process, that the desired change in the political system being clamored for, can be realized. According to him, ‘It is not always easy to have a leader who has both integrity and capacity to govern – which are two important qualities of a leader. If a leader does not have both integrity and capacity to govern, choose the one that can govern because his capacity to govern will benefit the people while his lack of integrity will be his harm. If you choose a man who has integrity without the capacity to govern, his lack of capacity to govern will harm the people while his integrity will only benefit himself,” he avowed. Similarly, Folarin Falana (Falz), Musician, Actor, and Entertainer reiterated the need for the teeming youths to be involved in their future by actively participating in the electoral process. “Votes don’t count is the big lie politicians sell to those whose votes cannot be bought so that only those whose votes can be bought will come to the polling units”, he noted. Besides, this poses another question to be answered, if votes don’t count, then why are the politicians buying your votes? Votes does count. So go register and collect your Permanent Voter’s Card [PVC] because your vote count! The GoNigeria is a not for profit, non-party movement dedicated to building a new voice for the young people in Nigeria. The initiative is in full gear with the initial advocates of Anap Foundation, who have intensified efforts at encouraging young Nigerians to register and collect their PVC to vote in 2023 general elections towards ensuring good governance and accessing the true dividends of democracy.