… And Rauf Aregbesola Too? Ogbeni has exploded o! Nothing can hold him back and he is taking his former mentor and oga to the cleaners o. In a classic Judas Iscariot move, Ogbeni is saying things that are leaving mouths wide open from the Lagos Lagoon to the Sahara Desert. Only God knows what could have angered Baba like this. I had always known it would come to this point. If you have read Julius Caesar and seen the description of Brutus, and you now look at Ogbeni’s picture, you will see what I am talking about. They say, scrawny long neck, gaunt look and scattered beards. The only thing that is missing in that description is the ‘sofe’ trouser and pointed shoe with the kembe.
For me, I couldn’t care less even if Senator Remi comes out to tell us that Baba is a two-minute man. My own is the character of the people who are leading us. So, if Ogbeni now thinks differently from his ‘daddy’ he cannot fight him with strategy? He cannot lean on issues and on very strong logical positioning to engage and wrestle? Is it all these watery talk that is looking like beer parlor talk that a politician of his standing and posturing will be throwing about? This whole thing is looking like two ‘Eleran’ fighting in Shomolu market.
The political class in general are just a grouping of people with no character, no color and no panache. Yes, let me generalise because if there are any who do not fit this categorisation, they are not up to six in the whole of Nigeria. We keep seeing this same scenario across all party lines, across the ages and across all geographical locations and we still keep flocking behind these clay footed puppets serenading them and giving them mandates to keep making a mockery of our collective nationhood.
Why for the life of me would I even consider someone who speaks like this, my leader by any stretch of the imagination? Shebi we get the kind of leaders that we deserve. No statement can be more accurate because all I am hearing from observers is Karma. What Karma? Ohh, Tinubu did it to Afenifere, people are screaming, so it’s good for him
You see the level of thinking? Nobody is asking what the major issue is in Osun. Didn’t Ogbeni serve Osun for eight years? What did he leave behind? If we had sense as a people, would he even be a factor in that state after the carnage he left behind, let alone coming and telling us who is pissing in his pants or not.
Please we should all cover our heads in Shame. Yes, all two hundred million of us. Sad. Really sad. Femi Gbajabiamila: Please Sit Down
The dust has not cleared this one has jumped up to go and be ordering probe. Which kind ‘Ntaga’ probe- Ntaga in Ibibio is like when you say ‘Yama yama’. All of a sudden billions have been squandered in the correctional services. They were not squandered before we started pissing in our agbada o. These are the things that make people just give up and leave the country to go and be washing corpse abroad. Is it not better you maintain your dignity rather than be a part of this fiasco that is unfolding? So Ogbeni has dared the Lion of Bourdillon, his toy soldiers, will now be trying to shoot pellets, wasting taxpayers’ money on a probe that will not get anywhere.
My Lord, Chief Gbajabiamila can you kindly just stand clear or if you are not going to stand clear, use your own money and time to probe whatever it is you want to probe. How do you guys even sleep at night knowing that you are just using our lives to dance Makosa for your immediate benefits? I really am ashamed of this crop of leaders and guess what, it just gets worse. Just when you think it could not get any lower, something like this comes up, and they will stand in front of TV Cameras’ and rub powder on their face and be talking about all this ‘crap’ thinking that we are believing.
Mbok, when you finish probing Ogbeni’s ministry, come and probe my tenure as the Family Head of the Amalgamated Edgar/Umo-Etuk enlarged Family of Nsit Ibom/Ikot Abasi of Akwa Ibom.
You never start. Not Another Child
Another innocent baby has been killed in Delta. We have not even settled the one in Kano, this one has gone to use cane to kill another baby. What is really going on? Why is there so much evil in the land?
How for the life of me, will you flog a child 31 strokes because, ‘he pushed another child in the head’? Is this person not possessed? What made him take leave of his senses? If our children cannot find protection in schools, where else will they find such? Things like these make me want to start changing my mind about capital punishment. I am a pacifist and do not believe that capital punishment serves any purpose. But events in this our Nigeria for the last 10 years is beginning to make me want to change position.
In cases like this, we should just do the needful and move on. No thinking, no looking back, no emotions, just deal. Simple and neat. Abba Kyari: My Brother, My Brother
Please, I would like to have just five minutes with this person. The man just tries. He and Tinubu will not let us hear word in this country. Both of them are just dragging us in all directions. Both of them are the singular issue in today’s Nigeria.
At least, Tinubu own we understand all the commotion, but this one I don’t really understand and that is why I want to have a session with him. Let me ask him, ‘Who do am’. Me I first heard about him through a BBC documentary and was really amazed at how an officer could confidently face an international media team and lie. Kai. I was just shouting, ‘Ohhh my God, he is not saying that, ohhh my God noooooo, ohhh shut up’. But did he listen? He just kept on lying and enjoying himself while doing it.
Today, he has become so popular that if the man stands for election, he can win o like play, like play. Me I don’t want to be specific in my engagement with this man because the facts are all over the place, but if we think this begins and ends with his big head then we are just a bunch of ……. The whole system, the whole nation is sick. For an institution not to have identified such a character quite early, and to even go ahead and nurture him and his ilk, celebrate him, promote him, name streets after him and even label him ‘super cop’ when there was a glaring double life just beneath the surface then IT IS FINISHED. It is over, let’s look for new colonial masters. I am telling you o. We need to be recolonised. No be this one wey we they see so. This is not a country; it is a colony. Kai. Buba Marwa From a Distance
Me, I am just looking at you from a distance. Me, I am not saying anything o, I am just greeting you and celebrating your gallant men.
They have shown tremendous courage in this episode especially with the way they moved very swiftly in apprehending this our brother in this sagaThat press release was a beautiful script. I have read it like eleven times and each time, wondering who or how many people wrote it. Its descriptive powers, garnished with praise of your efforts in the war against drugs and also not forgetting to pull Buhari in for special adulation and then going back to describing the events leading to the capture of the suspect was pure James Hardly Chase territory.
Marvelous. All for just 25kg of cocaine? By the time, we are seeing the hauls that come in huge containers, that one na Chico Ejiro we will call in to come and write that press statement. Lord, please let’s get serious. All this patting on the back and self-praising for what we are still looking at critically is somewhat unnecessary. Your boys tried too hard with that statement. Too much effort was put in writing that speech abeg.
Focus. You have not even scratched the surface in this drug war, don’t get distracted. Focus my lord. Hadiza Bala–Usman: No Victor, No Vanquished?
After nine months of gruelling and intense investigations, if we are to believe the 11-man panel who have come out with a ‘win-win’ verdict in the saga of the Nigerian Port Authority (NPA), then we all really have cotton wool for brains.
As we receive the report, we clap na, abi, what else are we to do. Shebi we are all mumu-mumu just sitting down there and letting them use our head.
From missing billions to insubordination, to suspension and now to the new Managing Director and a final verdict of – nothing happened- Nigerians have been taken on one huge roller coaster ride I swear. This is the sad tale of Nigeria today where leaders just wheel and deal with shallow interests as currency. The interest of the common man and general good is nowhere near in this equation; just dark motives, leading to an evil game of musical chairs with masquerades as major actors.
Something will definitely give. Something will give. There will soon be light at the end of this seemingly unending dark tunnel. You just wait and see, except Sampson Alagbara is not my middle name. Wait and see. Flutterwave’s Brilliant Outing
This firm which recently announced hitting the Unicorn Status- a valuation of $1billion – has just announced that it has raised a further tidy sum of $3billion making it worth much more than almost half of our states all put together.
This kind of story gives you a lot of hope in the striking potential of this country. The beauty of this hope is the resilience of the people. The few that have sense and their ability to pull out these kinds of sparks in an environment of gloom. It is not only Flutterwave o. Daily, Nigerian start-ups are revving, making hay and better positioning this country. Today, Nigerian start-ups control a significant percentage of seed funding globally and we are beginning to earn respect globally.
Let our leaders continue to be playing Jankara politics, deceiving themselves and jumping off cliffs, our youths will rebuild this country along very strong economic lines.
Firms like Flutterwave hold this dream and I am very confident that we will emerge, only a matter of time. We will emerge. Ahmed Musa Opening Old Wounds
So, the Super Eagles striker stumbled on a former colleague. A gold winning member of the wonderful Atlanta Miracle team driving a weather-beaten bus somewhere in the East.
He stopped and gave the guy N2m while requesting for further assistance from his former colleagues and authorities to rehabilitate the man.
Well, this scenario is not isolated as we have heard of the sad stories of our past heroes. Rashidi Yekini, the goal king, readily comes to mind. For me, I try not to get emotional as I put the blame squarely at the feet of these players. You see, truth be told 90% of Nigerians will never get that 15 minutes of fame that they have. Remember that 15 minute of fame comes with a lot of riches and opportunities. So, if some years down the line, they are driving buses, then what do we do.
I know I will be pilloried for this but it’s the truth. Let me ask, do you see how much they are paid for winning bonuses in a single match. How many Nigerians will earn that in a lifetime? Tell me how many and then a few years after they fall on bad times. We will now be shouting – Nigerian Hero!!!!!!!!. Mbok, who is not a hero? Me, I am a hero o. That policeman chasing armed robbers with bare hands and on N50,000 monthly salary, with no insurance cover na hero ooo. That teacher on N50,000 monthly teaching under horrendous conditions na hero too.
So, let’s be serious. All sorts of insurance, pensions, health coverage have been muted and pushed all to no avail. I have personally been involved in several initiatives as an investment banker all geared towards providing future safety nets for our sports men all to no avail. We met with all stakeholders in the system from authorities to players’ unions all to no avail. They will sha scatter it for immediate gains. Then when it happens, we will be shouting – Hero is eating guguru.
Please we are all heroes. Let’s be serious. Footballing stakeholder groups -nay the whole sporting architecture should come together and work with professionals to put in place financial safety nets for our sports men, these stories don’t move me one bit. Pastor Ituah Ighodalo: A Bold Step
Social media is in a frenzy as a result of a post circulating on something my elder brother Pastor Ighodalo had said about Ogbeni Tinubu’s candidacy. Incidentally, I was with the well-respected pastor a day before the post hit pay dirt and even though our conversations didn’t veer towards politics, I still would have been very happy if he had asked for my opinion.
Anyways, that statement has gone really far because of its sincerity. If it was true that it was the pastor that truly made that statement then he has just won a new convert to his church. He was said to have advised the Jagaban against his ambition and notwithstanding the fact that they were friends for years. He felt that he still owed him a sense of duty to tell him the truth as he saw it. In the statement he went further to give very good reasons for his position while also proffering advice on the way forward.
My joy is not in whether I agree with the pastor or not but the fact that friends like this who will stare you in the face and tell you their minds are very rare in Nigeria of today. People like Pastor Ighodalo are not plentiful. As a matter of fact, I don’t know plenty of these kinds of people. Most of us will just colour the truth, tell you what you want to hear and move on to watch Zee world while waiting for you to stumble.
Kudos to Pastor Ighodalo, more powder to your handsome face. Babalola Obilana: The Pension Czar
He came to hug me during our play- Awo. He looked vaguely familiar and then he introduced himself and I screamed. Ohh my God, Obilana!!!!. He was one of the most brilliant pension people that I have ever met in my life. He is now the Director General of the Lagos Pension Commission. Wow. How deserving. I had almost worked with him at the very onset of the pension reforms. He had shown uncanny brilliance and clear clarity as to the expectations of the new policy. But you know me na, I failed the interview. Then, I lost touch with him. So, you can imagine my pleasure when I met him almost 10 years later. He was with my other brother Muyiwa who was a colleague at Magnum Trust Bank and who now incidentally was his Executive Director. See these people o. They have grown up and me, I am here carrying a script and not combing hair and calling myself Duke of Shomolu. Well, during the week, I visited their office at Alausa and we discussed the industry very thoroughly. Bro was still very sharp in his positions, especially on defined benefits…. Make I no talk o, before I confuse you people.
Well-done guys. With people like you, there is still hope. Davido: Twice a Man
Finally, during the week, it was reported that music star, Davido, had fulfilled his pledge of donating the whopping sum of N250million to various charitable causes all over the country. What else can we say but thank you. That this is earth shaking and phenomenal cannot be contested. Today, because of this young man’s kindness, many young Nigerians without any hope will aspire. They will be given the oxygen of life which will push them to run. A Nigerian President will come out of this donation, a Nigerian Astronaut will come out from this donation and the freshness of life will cascade throughout the land.
Mr. David, you have done noble. Well-done. This is what we are talking about. Real influence. It was my brother Yemi Odusanya that said, ‘Edgar, the problem with our country is simple. We do not love our neighbours.”
That, my people, encapsulates our troubles. All we need is love. Thank you, Mr. David