George Okoh In Makurdi Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom, has flagged off the construction of N5,100,000,027.74 Makurdi-Yogbo-Udei-Udei branch road project that span through Makurdi and Guma local government areas of the state. Speaking at the ceremony in Makurdi yesterday, governor Ortom said the 55 kilometres road will boost the development of the areas in the state. He said the road projects in the state would have been concluded if not for foreign terrorists, Fulani herdsmen who he accused of a hidden agenda of taking over the native land of the people, warning anyone with intention of selling any portion of land in the state to desist or face the wrath of the ancestors from their graves. The governor, who warned Benue youths against any act that would jeopardise early completion of the road project, said his administration is about constructing two cells at the Correctional Centre Makurdi to house criminal elements that would be convicted by courts in the state. He assured communities in the state of his administration’s plans to address infrastructural development before the end of his tenure in May, 2023. Speaking, Commissioner for Works and Transport, Jude Uungwa, explained that the road has first coat surface dressing to link Mbagwen and Nyiev communities of Ihyarev Extraction in Makurdi and Guma Local Government Areas. He said prominent settlements on this road are Yogbo and Udei, which share borders with Doma local government Area of Nasarawa State. “This road will in no measure salvage the volatile security situation that has characterised border areas occasioned by incessant Fulani herdsmen and banditry attacks.” “Another striking importance of this Road is that its completion will boost agricultural production not just in this locality, but the State and Nation at large considering the fact that the communities where it traverses are completely agrarian.” He said the road has a lot of filling and hydraulic structures and shall be finished with first coat surface dressing, saying the contractor, Triacta Nig Ltd, has been fully mobilised to commence work. The commissioner, therefore, called on the construction company to cooperate with the Ministry to ensure strict compliance to specifications and the contractual agreements. Earlier, the Manager of Triacta Nigeria Limited, Mr. Georges Voyimil commended governor Ortom for the choice of the company, assuring of readiness to deliver the project according to specification and on time.