Goddy Egene As part of the surprises that might shape the 2023 elections, a former governor of Kano State, Rabi’u Musa Kwankwaso, has floated a new political group, The National Movement (TNM), to be formally presented to the public today at the Ladi Kwali Hall of the Sheraton Hotel and Towers, Abuja. A former Publicity Secretary of the Peoples Democratic Party(PDP), Professor Rufia Ahmed Alkali, is the Protem National Secretary of group. According to a letter of invitation to the official launch of the movement, Alkali said the event would be historic. “During the launch, the TNM will be formally presented to the general public and the convener of the movement will outline its aims and objectives and its principal purpose as well as inviting all patriotic Nigerians at home and abroad to join the TNM in the overall interest of saving our country and redirecting her onto the path of safety and security, peace and prosperity, equity and opportunity, in addition to qualitative and competent leadership that will engender rapid and sustainable development as well as being fair and just to all.” Although the name of the convener was not mentioned in the invitation letter, sources told THISDAY that Kwankwaso was the force behind the idea. Nevertheless, key northern politicians, including serving and former governors, and lawmakers are members of the group and all waiting for the former launch before they would declare their membership. Aside, some southern politicians and professionals have equally been invited to join the movement. Some of the prominent names linked to the group are former governors, Murtala Nyako, Lukcy Igbinedion and Achike Udenwa. Others are Professor Pat Utomi, former Executive Secretary of TetFund, Dr. Bappa Bichi, Buba Galadima, Tahir Saad, Solomon Dalung, Rufai Hanga, Senator Grace Bent, and Professor Attahiru Jega, who is expected to fuse his Rescue Movement into the group. It was gathered that TNM has strong backing of former military leaders as well. According to sources, TNM would transform into a major party that would be used to further the agitation for northern presidency in 2023 among other things. Already, the name of the party TNM would transform into has been chosen and would be registered soon after the formal unveiling.