James Sowole in Abeokuta Electricity consumers in Olosun, a community in Ado-Odo Ota Local Government Area of Ogun State, have called on the National Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) to sanction Ibadan Electricity Distribution Company (IBEDC) for its epileptic and erratic power supply and bogus electricity bills to the community. The community said in April 2021, it sent a save-our-soul (SOS) message to NERC over power outages and outrageous billing by IBEDC, but the regulatory commission has not called Ibadan Disco to order as the outages are getting worse, while the billing is on the high side. One of the Community Development Association (CDA) chairmen, who craved anonymity, said that in November 2021 when the outages were becoming unbearable, he lodged a complaint at IBEDC’s office at Bibio in Ota, and enquired about the reason for the outages. He said: “The Marketing Manager, Mr. Yemi Eluwole, told me that there was load shedding which has affected electricity supply. He went further to say that he hoped that the supply would be better in December. But it became worse. Even on Christmas day, there was no light.” Another resident of the community, Alhaji Yusuff Ishola, condemned NERC for being an efficient organisation. Ishola said: “Early last year, we appealed to NERC to come to our aid as Ibadan Disco was milking us in this community, but nothing was done. I don’t think NERC is effective or else IBEDC ought to have been sanctioned. It seems Ibadan Disco knows how ineffective NERC is, that’s why IBEDC is treating us anyhow. “Since October 2021, the electricity supply in this community has been erratic. At times for days, there’ll be blackout and at the end of the month, the new bill will be more than the previous month.” Another resident, Mrs Ajoke Taiwo, said for the past four days, the community has been in darkness, adding that when the bill for the month comes, she was sure her bill would be more than the N5,800 for February despite not having light for most part of the month. “We have complained to our CDA executive and they said IBEDC said the power outage was as a result of load shedding from the national grid which would affect Ogun, Oyo, Kwara States. Even before the load shedding, IBEDC’s services have been disastrous. “How I wish the government agency or parastatal in charge of Ibadan Disco reprimands or sanctions the organisation.” But responding, the Senior Communication Officer of IBEDC in Ogun State, Mr Ayodeji Bada, said all electricity consumers either in that area or in other areas, are billed according to the template laid down by NERC. Bade said irrespective of what happened, except in very specific cases, the company cannot go above or below. According to him, “Concerning the issue of Olosun/Itele area, they are viable customers on Plan B that should enjoy light for 16 to 20 hours in a day, and which they have been enjoying. But since around October last year, we have been having allocation restrictions from the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN), which doesn’t allow us to supply them regular power supply that they are used to. “Let me assure them that immediately there is allocation, we are going to let them have regular supply, but not that they are going use the 16 hours everyday. But at times when it is available, we are going to give them more. “Concerning the billing, we are using the average cluster methodology given to us by NERC, and this methodology doesn’t allow us to bill customer on each tariff bar above capping unit. Because our consumers have tariff classification, we have been pegged on what we can bill our consumers and we cannot bill them above the capped unit, even if they are using more than the allocation. “The most joyful aspect of Olosun/Itele consumers is that most of the customer in this area are metered, but I want to appeal to those who are yet to meter to key into the Meter Access Provider Scheme (MAPS) ongoing. “Under the scheme, consumers are going to borrow us money to buy the meter, which we are going to refund back to them in 36 months instalment as they recharge. Indirectly, the meter is free. But at the initial stage, they are going to buy the meter.” He said a single phase meter is N63,016, while the three-phase meter is about N117,000. “The meter is available. Once they get to our office with their bills, national identity card, international passport, driver’s licence or any means of national identification, but not office identity card,” he said.