Yinka Kolawole in Osogbo Osun State Commissioner for Economic Planning, Budget and Development, Prof. Olalekan Yinusa, has highlighted some emerging issues as the reasons for the need to review the State Development Plan (SDP) 2019-2028. The commissioner gave the hint yesterday while declaring open a day training workshop organised for the ‘State Plan Revision Team(SPRT) and Sector Planning Teams(SPTs) on the review of the SDP 2019-2028’. He explained that the COVID-19 pandemic ravaging the world, with the state not left out; increase in population, digitalisation and all other issues which had drastically affected the economy of the world necessitated the review of the SDP 2019-2028. Yinusa stated further that the state Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola, speedily approved the review of the SDP 2019-2028 because of his genuine interest to give residents of the state the best and move the state forward. While giving other reasons for the review of the SDP, the commissioner said, among other the things, the review would help the state to have a reliable budget and ensure that there is transparency and accountability in public finance management. According to him, “We must begin to plan for the future from now; the world is evolving and things are no longer the same. We need to prepare and plan to meet these new realities staring us in the face. “The population is growing, COVID-19 is still ravaging the world, and the economy is changing, so we need to review our plans. We must be thankful to God that we have a man like Governor Oyetola in the saddle of leadership today, he is planning into the future, and that is why we are doing this today.” Making a brief presentation on the roles of State Plan Revision Team (SPRT) and Sector Planning Teams (SPTs), the resource person at the workshop, Dr. Gabriel Ojegbile, said it was important that the reviewed plan is quality assured. He added that the vision of the state, major priorities of the state, as well as the challenges of the state must be fully considered, stressing that the state must be ready to improve on the existing baseline in all sectors. The workshop had in attendance the top echelon of the state civil service including the Permanent Secretaries, General Managers, Directors-General, Coordinating Directors and other technocrats from all the sectors in the state.