Mrs Olatorera Majekodunmi-Oniru is an Ogun Central Senatorial district aspirant on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the coming 2023 elections. In this interview with THISDAY, she adduces reasons for venturing into the race and also unveils her manifesto. Excerpts: You have just thrown your hat into the Ogun Central senatorial contest on the platform of APC. What are the things you are bringing to the table?
I am uniting the nation for growth and development as we work to elect the highest potential citizens in 2023. I am bringing to the table an unrelenting belief in Greater Nigeria achievable through progressive policies and a united government. I am bringing my love for people and my determination to instill a happy and progressive culture of growth, development and humanistic leadership. I am bringing my promise to work with every leader in Nigeria to provide the highest quality education, healthy living and other important benefits for every citizen. You are a new entrant into politics, aren’t you intimidated with the calibre of the old breeds that are already calling the shots?
I have significant experience in political consulting. I have been a member of APC for many years. I have allies who are topmost leaders in our nation and around the world. In addition, I have a solid network of global leaders backing my Senatorial run. You consider those that have been in a position for over 30 years yet we haven’t seen much developments come out of their tenure as more experienced than me? I beg to differ there. I have the educational qualifications -Merrill Lynch Green Belt, Emory Master of Business Administration, IMD Executive Leadership, Harvard Women and Power, etc. I also have the career leadership track-record – Financial Management Programme, General Electric; Senior Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch; Senior Supervisor, CBN; Head of Sales Ericsson; Founder, Olatorera Consultancy; Keynote Speaker to over 50 global events – to show that I will serve ethically and dutifully in representing Ogun Central in Senate. I have no other mission than to witness a progressive Nigeria that delivers benefits and infrastructural developments to citizens, investors and tourists. I am fully confident that I will deliver on my mandate to the Nation thus, not at all intimidated. Do you have the financial muscle to slug it out with these moneybags?
Money is not an issue and I don’t predict it will ever be an issue in any way. In addition, Nigerians and Ogun Central citizens are ready to elect only the best highest potential citizens moving forward. We all want leaders who aren’t money-focused but development-focused. We will not elect people because they have war chests but because they are qualified, they genuinely care, and they will get the work done, ethically. Do you have political godfathers who have assured you or given you the go-ahead to contest?
We have supporters and contributors who are considered elder statesmen in our nation. They are fully supportive of my candidacy in running for the Ogun Central Senatorial Seat for Greater Nigeria. Are you a known figure within your ward or, at the grassroots, because it counts in Nigerian politics?
Yes. I have met with leaders and citizens across all of the 74 wards in all six local government areas of Abeokuta South, Abeokuta North, Odeda, Ifo, Ewekoro and Obafemi-Owode. I will continue to meet with many more citizens daily. My people are aware of my Senatorial ambition and are very highly supportive. We will win together, for Greater Ogun and Greater Nigeria. Gender is another factor that defines or shapes the destiny of an aspirant. Here in our own home-grown politics, women aren’t usually given the opportunity to occupy higher responsibilities in politics, except the lucky ones. So, how do you want to go about this?
When we are passionate and progressive about a mission, nothing else matters aside from achieving that mission successfully. Nigeria must move forward, we must progress as a nation regardless of gender, wealth, religion, age or any other divisive factor. The Olatorera Majekodunmi-Oniru For Senate Group has an army of supporters and we are united for growth and success, nothing will divide or stop us in achieving our goals for Greater Nigeria. Not gender, not age, not ethnicity, not religion. We remain united in our words, thoughts and actions for Greater Nigeria. It is common knowledge that politics is a dirty game in this part of the world. Why can’t you face your profession instead of venturing into this murky water?
I have faced my profession for 20 years and succeeded exceedingly well. March 3rd will mark 20 years of education and progressive work across multiple industries and across over 25 countries and 100 cities. I have invested heavily in financial markets, entrepreneurship and philanthropic activities and this will continue. My run for Senate is a selfless run. It is time to serve my country. It is time to move Nigeria forward. I believe in Greater Nigeria, I have always and will always. Nothing will stop my quest to utilise my leadership capabilities, people-centric passion and energy to contribute to a Greater Nigeria. I cannot sit back after a very successful career and watch my country derail and people suffer. Nigeria’s topmost problem is poor leadership. We need people who care to instill a progressive system of governance that will establish checks and balances and prioritise the needs of citizens. Nigerians do not deserve poor food supply, inadequate education, unstable electricity, brutality, fuel scarcity and many of the problems we face daily. We must alleviate the sufferings of Nigerians. We must establish government systems and benefits that will provide healthier food, good healthcare and benefits to the unemployed that will collectively contribute to increasing our standard of living. To achieve this, we must win together for Greater Nigeria. Greater Nigeria is a must.
You want to realise your political ambition on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Why APC and not Peoples Democratic Party (PDP)? I have been a member of APC for a while. Many of my political associates and allies nationwide are leaders and members of the APC. I identify with progressive Nigerians who work tirelessly for Greater Nigeria. Prince Dapo Abiodun is the Ogun State Governor, have you ever met him one-on-one to seek for his blessing for your political ambition?
Yes, I have met his Excellency, Governor Dapo Abiodun; and he is very aware of my determined run to uprightly and progressively represent great citizens of Ogun Central at the upper chamber of our National Assembly. What are your assessments of the current administration of Prince Dapo Abiodun in the last 32 months he assumed the mantle of leadership?
Prince Abiodun is working hard and when we have leaders putting in their best, we must support them. Let’s remember that Nigeria has had many decades of regression, increased poverty, Naira decline etc. To turn our predicament around faster, we need many more progressive citizens supporting those in government. We must encourage our Governor and we must support and elect only the best citizens who will perform excellently, without excuses. To you, what are your expectations in view of the inadequate participation and involvement of the women in the country’s polity?
I will be happy to witness many more progressive, passionate, ethical, participation in government that includes women and young people. The global minimum expectation of women participation in government is 30% but in Nigeria it is less than 5% within the executive and legislative Arms of government.