Established in 2013, GemPundit (a brand of Fortuna Retail Pvt. Ltd.) is one of the leading providers of 100% original gemstones and gemstone jewelry. They revolutionized the way people bought gemstone jewelry by crafting authentically sourced customized gemstone jewelry at the best prices. GemPundit has established a reputation for providing great 24×7 customer service and support. How authentic are their Gemstones?
GemPundit is known to provide absolutely legit colored gemstones. They use the world’s latest proprietary technology. The gemstones available on their website are certified from industry-wide renowned gemological laboratories such as GRS, IGI, GIA, GII, etc. With their advanced HD photos and 3D videos, they have made their online process more transparent and robust. They have an option for their valuable customers to book an appointment for face-to-face interactions. If one is still not satisfied with its initial discussions, then they will surely review your request multiple times till one is 100% satisfied.
Products & Services at GemPundit With 1 Lakh+ happy customers globally, and an exclusive range of over 50,000+ gemstones, GemPundit is India’s leading online gem retailer. As a socially responsible brand, they have a stringent certification process for gemstones to ensure they are genuine and trustworthy. They have a wide collection of precious, mid-precious, and semi-precious gemstones in different shapes and carat weights. If you are looking for more unique gemstones, then they also deal in calibrated gemstones, matched pairs, gemstones sets or suites, parcel lots, and fancy cut gemstones. They offer a broad spectrum of gemstones that makes stunning jewelry. You can’t shop anything less than a fancy cut sparkling gemstone. However, depending on one’s requirements, their team of CAD experts makes stunning customized gemstone jewelry in yellow gold, rose gold, white gold, sterling silver, platinum, and panchdhatu metals. And if you are looking for something really different, a more vintage-looking cut, or a unique and fancy shape, GemPundit is more likely to have what you are looking for. Whether it is an engagement ring, gemstone earrings, gemstone rings, pendants, bracelets, or something simpler to spoil yourself with, you can easily refine your search to locate what exactly you need. On the other hand, one can get detailed information about the gemstone including its astrological benefits, healing benefits, factors on which the quality of the gemstone is determined, prices, and trendy jewelry pieces for both men and women. Along with this, for a novice buyer, the FAQ section contains almost every answer to commonly asked questions. GemPundit deeply understands the importance of gemstones and manifests the teachings of the Vedas in our gemstones. There are two kinds of gemstone pooja that they offer, namely; Vedic Pooja and Prana Pratishta Pooja. Both these esteemed forms of Pooja are conducted by their priest or Pandit who recites and chants various prayers and mantras, along with the wearer’s name. They offer Vedic Pooja and Prana Pratishta Pooja services to all their customers worldwide at a specific cost. You can either attend the pooja yourself or witness it on a live stream. Their poojas are conducted by experienced and esteemed Pandits that carry out highly sophisticated and specialized prayer and mantra reciting to make your desired gemstone the best purchase you have ever made! In addition to this, GemPundit also offers basic energization of the gemstone that comes complimentary with your purchase. This procedure is a simple and basic energization for your gemstone that comes for free whenever you buy gemstones from GemPundit. What makes GemPundit special?
There are various websites that sell gemstones online but before getting your hands on these precious stones, one must always check how authentic they are. In the world of online gemstone retail, buying from the experts gives you authenticity and surety about the quality of gemstones. With all the gemstone, setting, style, and metal options on gempundit.com, it gives you a reason to create a pretty unique jewelry piece of your choice. Also, to deduce the authenticity of gemstones, you can search for GemPundit Reviews online. At GemPundit, when you click on a gemstone’s page, you will be able to see a comprehensive catalog of products, high-quality educational material, and magnified images of gemstones along with a 360-degree video. Their award-winning customer support team is available 24×7 to answer all your queries. By availing of their Astrological Consultation service, one can get expert guidance from their team of expert astrologers who can recommend gemstones based on your birth chart. They have designed a free Gem Recommendation Tool where you can get quick and accurate astrological gemstone recommendations. And companies such as GemPundit, with their transparent pricing and world-class design, are making it a reality to access authentic and natural gemstones. It’s indeed a match made in style and astrology. If you have been looking for that perfect gemstone to match your vibe, it’s time to get one.