 By Bennett Oghifo Water, an essential ingredient to survival of humans, plants and animals, is becoming increasingly scarce in Africa, raising its cost astronomically for families and fueling border tensions among communities and even among countries that share water bodies. Climate change fuels the dryness that adversely impacts Africa and its dire consequences in the future, particularly in food production.
These were some highlights from the virtual conference tagged ‘Africa Media Cafe: Water and Climate Change’ that was organised by Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), a reputable think tank in New Delhi, India, in collaboration with an Africa-based media network, Media for Environment, Science, Health and Agriculture (Mesha), in Nairobi, Kenya. The very interesting session was anchored by the team from CSE, Souparno Banerjee, Richard Mahaprata, the Managing Editor of Down to Earth, New Delhi, and Sukanya Nair and by MESHA’s Executive, Aghan Daniel, who informed participants of MESHA’s future project on climate change, particularly looking at issues of biodiversity. Aghan said, “this is the first of six Science Cafes we plan to have this year.”
The resources persons were, Richard Mahaprata, who presented excerpts from a recent Africa-focused publication ‘New Depths’ by Down To Earth; Mouhamadou Bamba Sylla, AIMS-Rwanda and Lynet Otieno, Editor, The Standard Group, Nairobi, Kenya. The Down To Earth report, based on research from countries in Africa, indicates that “More and more people are spending more money on water than on food,” according to Mahaprata. Adding, “4.5 million years is the time women and children in Africa spend on collecting water every year. A pan-continental shortage has made hunting for water a daily exercise and forced Africans to spend more on water than on food.”
Mahaprata presented statistics from meteorological agencies that identified Africa as one of the world’s most water-stressed continents. “In the last 25 years, the population has doubled, but access to water has progressed by just 20 per cent.”
The research found that “400 million people in sub-Saharan Africa don’t have access to safe drinking water,” quoting Joint Monitoring Programme (JMP) of World Health Oganization, which said “The poor are more prone to contaminated water,” and that “Africa loses 5% of its annual GDP due to water scarcity.” The type of water scarcity in Africa is described as an ‘Hydrocide’ because it occurs amidst abundance of water. The statistics is grim: Even with “50 transboundary rivers, over 160 lakes and vast network of wetlands,” Africa is “still the second driest continent after Australia.” The research shows that a third of Africa’s population live in drought-prone areas, and that in “Eastern Africa, drought has increased from ⅙ years to ⅓ years since 2005. Conflicts are increasingly revolving around access to water,” giving examples of Victoria Lake, Nile River, and Lake Chad, whose water volumes are declining fast, as well as their resources. “Climate change is playing a role in disrupting the rain cycle; environmental degradation in the catchment that is human-induced.”
Mahaprata observed that Africa is the least emitter of greenhouse gasses that cause global warming but the most impacted, as well as Asia. A recent report of the World Meteorological Organization on the state of climate in Africa shows that there have been, in the “last five decades, 1,695 disasters related to weather, water, and climate, 0.73 million deaths, and an economic loss of $38.5 billion. Floods account for 60 per cent of the disasters and 4 per cent of the deaths.” Droughts account “for 16 per cent of the disasters but 95 per cent of the deaths. The highest in the world.”
According to the World Bank, “five Lake Victoria countries will see 16.6 and 38.5 million internal migration due to water scarcity.”
Mouhamadou Bamba Sylla presented the impact of climate change on Africa’s increasing drought and its consequences on food production in the future. He said the change in weather has caused low precipitation that has decreased water availability.
Lynet Otieno also discussed climate change-induced water scarcity, and the importance of writing compelling stories about the disasters for people to know what the issues are and for them to be part of the solution. She said, “Journalists can help bridge the gap between research findings, policy formulation, and implementation by interpreting, relaying and interrogating information, civic education on the climate-induced water stresses, as well as putting relevant authorities to task and on their toes for action.”