Sunday Aborisade, Abuja A group of professionals and business entrepreneurs, under the aegis of Citizens Network for Peace and Development (CNPD), has urged President Muhammadu Buhari to support former President Goodluck Jonathan to emerge as Nigeria’s president in 2023 under the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC). The group said it was time for former President Jonathan to dump the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and join forces with Buhari in the ruling APC, so as to return to power next year. The National Coordinator of CNPD, Mr. Raphael Okorie, stated this while addressing journalists in Abuja on Sunday. Okorie said the group was ready to mobilise at least eight million citizens to return Jonathan to Aso Rock, Nigeria’s seat of power. He said the group was pleading with the former president to accept the offer to serve and rescue Nigeria at this crucial moments because of his track records in office. The CNPD said it was lending its voice to “the increasing calls by various groups on the need for former President Jonathan to run for office”. He said: “We call on none other than our father and incumbent President Muhammadu Buhari GCFR, who has done so much in his few years in office to throw his support behind the candidature of Goodluck Jonathan, should he accept to vie for the office of president. “Coming at the heels of the end of his tenure, we are confident that Jonathan more than any other candidate will ensure continuity, stability and fair play across the polity. We say to Mr. President that you have sacrificed so much for this nation. “We are ready to mobilise no less than eight million Nigerians towards the 2023 polls. We say so with all sense of responsibility. “Barely a year from now, an opportunity to go to the polls to vote beckons. Nigerians will once again be presented with the chance to choose from the usual political class or from a tested, trusted and responsible leader. “Nigerians will be accorded the opportunity to decisively address the security and economic challenges of our dear nation. “Taking the right step forward towards returning Nigeria to the path of peace, growth and development that is what the Citizens Network for Peace and Development pursuits vigorously. “The Citizens Network for Peace and Development has always been an active, impartial and largely apolitical entity made of members drawn across religions and ethnic nationalities and regions of the country. “Our vision is to promote peace and development in Nigeria which is hinged on two principles, mutuality and inclusivity geared towards a strong and virile nation. “Nigeria at this point in her history, good leadership is very crucial to sustaining the strides achieved by the previous presidencies. “The leadership requirement to move Nigeria forward is nothing short of a nationalist, knowledgeable, one who is tested and trusted, one who is a visionary, strong and committed to the Nigerian project. “Nigeria deserves a leader who is respected even beyond our borders. One who is passionate and one who puts the interests of the citizenry above his own. “We have carefully scanned the political firmament in search of a credible, knowledgeable, selfless, trusted and patriotic candidate to occupy the exalted position of President of Nigeria. “It is not in doubt that Nigeria is at a crossroad between discontent, fear and suspicion and the propensity for peace, reconciliation and hope. “Our searchlight has fallen on none other than former President Goodluck Ebele Jonathan. His antecedents speak volumes. His compassion and passion for peace and Nigeria’s development cannot be overlooked.” The group noted that those who vigorously criticised the Jonathan administration usually misunderstood his conciliatory and transformative approach to governance. It said the former president’s critics had since realised that his patriotism and love for Nigeria is unflinching. It said: “Jonathan had shown that the interest of Nigeria comes first. This was demonstrated by his actions during and in the aftermath of the 2015 elections, specifically the historic phone call he made to President Mohammadu Buhari. “He has indeed proven to be a peace maker and patriotic. He epitomises a true defender of democracy. “His exemplary display of political solidarity and commitment to the progress of Nigeria has earned him crucial international roles as special envoy, mediator and resource person in global governance and security. “Presently, the distrust in the polity requires a tested Nigerian like Jonathan to bridge the gap and foreclose any suspicion as is the case with some of those that have indicated interest in occupying Also Rock come 2023. “We do not need a leader who is coming onboard with hangers-on who at best will constitute themselves into a nuisance and unwanted distraction. We do not need a leader whose history is chequered with more questions than answers and we certainly do not need a leader whose ambition is just to be president and nothing more. “We need a leader who is a true democrat. A leader who is acceptable by all. One who appeals to the young and the old, the rich and the poor, the Muslim and the Christian, the Northerner and the Southerner. “A leader who is enlightened, respected and loved. A leader who is proactive, strong and principled. “A leader who values the sanctity of human lives. A leader who fully understands the trappings of power and knows not to abuse the privilege. “A leader who is tolerant and experienced. Nigeria deserves a leader who is detribalised and ready to work for the common good of all.”