Deji Elumoye and Sunday Aborisade in Abuja The Senate on Wednesday confirmed nine nominees proposed by President Muhammadu Buhari as commissioners of the National Population Commission (NPC) and National Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC). The commissioners include five for NPC while the remaining four are for NERC. The confirmation of the nominees was sequel to the consideration of two separate reports presented at plenary by the Senate Committees on National Identity and National Population; and Power. The two separate presentations were made by Senators Ya’u Sahabi Alhaji (Zamfara North) and Gabriel Suwam, who both chair the respective committees. The nominees were confirmed after the chamber considered the reports. The nominees confirmed as commissioners of the NPC included: Chief Benedict Ukpong Effiong (Akwa Ibom), Mrs. Gloria Fateya Izonfo (Bayelsa), Kupchi Patricia Ori Iyanya (Benue), Dr. Haliru Bala (Kebbi), and Dr. Eyitayo Oyekunle Oyetunji (Oyo). The four nominees confirmed as commissioners of the NERC were Dr. Yusuf Ali (North-central), Chidi Ike (South-east), Mr. Nathan Rogers Shatti (North-east), and Mr. Dafe Akpeneye (South-south). The Red Chamber also on Wednesday confirmed the nomination of Mrs. Emily Chidinma Osuji as the Executive Director of the Nigerian Deposit Insurance Corporation (NDIC). The confirmation of the nominee followed the consideration of the report of the Committee on Banking, Insurance and Other Financial Institutions. The Chairman of the Committee, Senator Uba Sani (Kaduna Central), in his presentation, said: “The office of the Executive Director (Corporate Services) of the corporation remains vacant following the end of the tenure of the previous occupant.” He however explained that Mrs. Osuji’s nomination by President Buhari was duly in accordance with the provisions of Section 8 of the Nigerian Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, 2006. According to him, “The nominee possesses the academic qualifications, technical knowledge and professional experience to be Executive Director of the NDIC.” He disclosed that the committee did not receive any petition against her nomination, adding that Osuji was “cleared by the Nigeria Police, Department of State Services (DSS) and possesses the Code of Conduct Acknowledgement slip”. The nominee was, thereafter, confirmed by the Senate.