Deji Elumoye Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has canvassed for considerable developmental gains for the oil-producing Niger Delta region. He, therefore, emphasised that a key objective of the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration was to ensure inclusive prosperity, which informed why the federal government is collaborating with state governments and increasing efforts towards ensuring the wholesome development of communities in the Niger Delta region and nationwide. Osinbajo, who spoke at the weekend at the flag-off ceremony of the Angiama-Oporoma Bridge on the Yenagoa-Oporoma-Ukubie road in Bayelsa State, stressed that Niger Delta communities such as Oporoma, Angiama, where the bridge is now being constructed, and others across the region, are home to vast amounts of mineral wealth and natural resources, “so they deserve to have considerable developmental gains to show for it.” He noted that the Angiama-Oporoma Bridge construction is a symbol for development in the region, and will have a far-reaching impact on the lives of the people in the communities. According to him, “By facilitating easier access to places like Yenogoa and beyond with this bridge, we will be laying a foundation for development that will deepen commerce and create individual and collective opportunities for the people of these communities.” Osinbajo further said the President Buhari administration was committed to the wholesome development of the Niger Delta region through its Niger Delta New Vision initiative. “As a matter of urgency, we are well on our way towards correcting historical lapses in this respect, through the collaborative efforts of the federal, state, and local governments, each one putting aside personal interests, and doing the best they can for the communities which have undeservedly suffered for so long,” he said. The vice president also assured the people of the federal government’s full support and collaboration in every way possible, adding that: “You have not been forgotten, and this milestone is only the beginning of greater things to come. “Under the Buhari administration’s New Vision initiative, the region has witnessed significant development strides and projects, such as the ongoing Ogoni cleanup in Rivers State, the take-off of the Nigeria Maritime University; establishment of modular refineries across states in the region; infrastructure projects, including the 34-km Bonny-Bodo Road and Bridge project; the Warri-Itakpe railway line, among others.” Osinbajo observed that for a country with the population and geographical span of Nigeria, guaranteeing inclusive prosperity is a mandate of the government. He added that this is especially so with the rapid urbanisation of the last two decades, the consequent pressure on cities, and the difficulties of allocating scarce resources, faced by governments at all levels and across the country. While noting the state potential, Osinbajo observed that the challenge, which is historically, has been to get the obvious potential of the state to match up to its lived realities.