Mary Nnah As part of efforts to tackle digitalisation hitches in the workplace especially as it regards human resources globally, the Human Resource Expo Africa (HREA) organisers of industry-leading conferences, exhibitions, and training is set to hold its 2022 international work festival in Lagos, Nigeria, and Kigali, Rwanda between April 5th and 7th in Lagos, Nigeria, and Kigali, Rwanda. The in-person event billed to hold at the Landmark Events Center, Victoria Island, Lagos and Serena Hotel, Kigali, Rwanda will host over 500 companies across the African countries. Speaking on the event at a virtual press conference, the founder of HREA, Erefa Coker, said the desire to flourish is a universal human concern which makes it important for managers, team leads, policymakers, and employees to discuss how best to succeed in a technology-changing world. With the theme, “The Future of Work in A Technology-Driven World (Work-Humans)”, Erefa stated, “Human Resource is the department that constantly has a seat at the table because it drives organisations and no matter where you function if you have a supportive HR department, you will get to the peak of your career and even the bottom line of the organisation will grow because the person driving the seat understands the terrain and the future of the business. “The biggest driver of digital transformation has been COVID-19 because, before March 2020, it was difficult to see people working from home. When we bring speakers from across the world, it is to come and tell us their experience and how they are succeeding, so that we can begin to practice it within our culture. “We cannot talk about the future of work enough because it keeps changing. The future of work is changing and we need to learn how we prepare ourselves for this,” she said. “Our virtual sessions will be hosted via a dedicated AI-powered, a multi-room virtual hub designed to deliver a truly absorbing work festival experience. Work Festival 2022 is designed to answer questions, create solutions and ignite new ideas for change. In her contribution, financial expert, Taiwo Dayo-Abatan, one of the speakers for the event said, “Managers and professionals have struggled with the imbalance between technology and people; this is more apparent than ever in our rapidly changing world”, she noted adding that, “The festival will focus on ways to accelerate the future of work in a technology-driven world through resilient leadership and sustainability, people engagement, financial inclusion, technology, digital, human capital management, better wellbeing, workforce upskilling, and result-oriented styles for a successful workplace. Also, Dr. John Opute acknowledged that the event has become an avenue for managers, human resources experts, employees of labour, and entrepreneurs among others to network, adding that there is a lot to offer at the forthcoming event.