Sylvester Idowu in Warri Former Governorship aspirant on the platform of the Peoples’ Democratic party (PDP) in Delta State, Mr, Sunny Onuesoke, has said that the sweeping victory of PDP in the three strategic Abuja Area Councils was a clear demonstration of the determination of Nigerians to return PDP to power in 2023. Onuesoke, who told newsmen in Warri, Delta State, that he was on ground in FCT for four days to personally monitor the election, stated that he was very impressed with the interest the electorates placed on the PDP during the conduct of the FCT election. He stated that the victory at the FCT polls on Saturday, February 12, 2022, represented a great omen for PDP noting that it would lead the party back to its winning ways and rebuilding of Nigeria. “I was not surprised by the performance of PDP candidates in the FCT election because I was on ground and saw the determination of the electorates to vote massively for the party because they were totally fed up with the ruling party, the All Progressive Congress (APC),” he stated. The PDP chieftain observed that the rejection of the APC in the three area councils represented the aspiration of Nigerians in the national consensus to do away with the party and return PDP to power at the center in 2023. It would be recalled that official figures showed that PDP won more councillorship seats, leading the APC with cumulative 44 councillorship seats against APC’s 18 seats. Onuesoke noted that the victory, which gave PDP the important Abuja Municipal Area Council, is a signal that Nigerians are tired of the woes and hardship of the moment, occasioned by the worsening socio-economic realities of today. He expressed optimism that the victory of PDP in FCT’s council election would be replicated in Ekiti and Osun States later this year, culminating in the party taking over of power at the centre next year, to usher in a better, more prosperous and secure Nigeria. “AMAC victory in FCT for PDP is a test ground that the party has purged itself of its impunity of the past. AMAC is not just another of those local councils, it attracts good funding, is metropolitan by making with reflection of national outlook. “The council plays host to Nigeria’s seat of power, the Three Arms Zone, and most of the important public and private institutions in the territory. Most import is that the results showed that PDP won far more votes than APC with all the results put together,” he said.