Chuks Okocha who monitored the 61st birthday of the former Senate President, Senator Anyim Pius Anyim who was a former Secretary to the Government of the Federation reports on the significance of the occasion Last Saturday marked the 61st birthday of the former Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Senator Anyim Pius Anyim was significant in many ways than one. The presence of the President, Muhammadu Buhari, who was represented by no less a person than the engine room of government, Boss Mustapha was another significant milestone, for Anyim, who has moved from a ruling party to a member of an opposition party. Closely related to this, was the presence of former President Dr. Goodluck Ebele Jonathan and his deputy, Architect Namadi Sambo. This is the first time since 2015 that both former first citizen and the second citizens will attend an event together From another dimension, the presence of the governor of Rivers state, Nyesom Wike at the event amidst the call for a southern presidential candidate of the PDP is also significant. His presence attracted a thunderous welcome from the audience. This could be interpreted as a welcome development. One significant thing from the gathering last Saturday is that it was an impetus to the presidential aspiration of Anyim who is also aspiring to become the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria by 2023. The gathering was momentous as well as the role call. The presidential aspiration of former senate president, Anyim Pius Anyim received a boost as the duo of President Muhammadu Buhari and ex-President, Dr. Goodluck Jonathan, tacitly commended the leadership qualities of the former Secretary to the Government of the Federation. Both leaders said that Anyim has all it takes to be entrusted with higher responsibilities in the future. President Buhari, represented by the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Mr. Boss Mustapha, noted that at various times while serving in different capacities, Anyim rose to the challenge of leadership by putting the nation first. That’s a testimonial of courage and that of a detribalized Nigerian According to President Buhari, “Senator Pius Anyim is a patriotic Nigerian who always puts his nation first and he is one of stabilizing voices we have today in the politics of our country. This he has demonstrated in a number of times, but the one that stands out and still echoes with me was his insistence that elected officers should always stay a single term and he kept to his word by not seeking for re-election to the Senate, after the expiration of his first term as Senator and Senate President in 2003. “That many Nigerians cutting across various political divides are gathered here today to celebrate you is a glowing testimony of your contributions to the growth of our nation and its political development,” Buhari stated. In what would count as tacit endorsement of Anyim’s 2023 presidential aspiration, Buhari added that the experiences garnered over the years by the former Senate President place him at a vantage position to seek higher political calling. He stated further : “Let me say on a personal note, as the current and 19th SGF that I have drawn a lot from the wealth of wisdom that has been the source of strength and the endowment that Senator Anyim has brought to the fore of governance in this country. We don’t often meet but whenever we meet, we share knowledge about the responsibilities of the office and the enormity of the act of balancing contending forces and interests, that is always vested on any occupant of that office. “And I want to thank you (Anyim), for the wealth of experience and the depth of knowledge that we have. I made bold to say whoever had occupied the Office of the Secretary to the government for four years In an evolving democracy like Nigeria, with diverse contentious issues, is capable and able to occupy any office,” he added. Like Buhari, former president Jonathan described Anyim as a unique leader who never allowed the trappings of office to get into his head. According to Jonathan, “the sheer number of people gathered at the International Conference Centre to honour Anyim was an indication of the trust Nigerians reposed in him years after leaving the office as Secretary to the Government of the Federation. “Some people are very busy and in most Saturdays, some people don’t like to wake up early. For you to have gathered this number as early as this time today means a lot. “We thank God for you today, your wife, your children, all your friends, with all of us, otherwise, we wouldn’t have been here to celebrate you today. . “You were the Senate President when I was the governor of Bayelsa state and I remember you visited me in the house one day and of course by divine providence, you became the engine room of my government as my Secretary to government of the Federation”, former President Jonathan said. . Jonathan who related his first encounter with Anyim said, “The first day I became President, Anyim Pius Anyim wanted to be chairman of PDP and he came to me with a lot of dreams and we spoke. I may not bother you with details but he was never the chairman of PDP. “When he became the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, he did not even come to me with a biscuit but we found him worthy as a Nigerian that had experience in managing systems, managing issues and also somebody who had friends across the country and when we were looking at the person we wanted to be the Secretary to the Government, of course we wanted somebody from the South-east because PDP then normally made sure that every geo-political zone had one key office. Now, we don’t have enough people, so we don’t have that. “Up to the time I was the President, something somehow happened in a way that we never expected. The PDP philosophy then was that the President will come from one geo-political zone, the Vice President from one geo-political zone, Secretary to Government from one-geo political zone, the Chairman of the party from one geo-political, the Senate President from one geo-political zone and the Speaker from one geo-political zone but that was when PDP had a lot of spread across the country. “Now it is difficult to package that because even the All Progressives Congress, APC don’t have that kind of spread. So, it is difficult to get that package. That was very unique and it was a good way of accommodating every sections of the country. “And so we zoned the Secretary to the Government to the South-east. We looked at our brothers and sisters, the characters, and they were very nice people. They had many competent people but let me say that it’s like a lot it fell on Anyim Pius Anyim and we made him the Secretary to the Government. And I don’t regret committing him. He is a very hard working young man, committed to serving this nation and I believe if he has the opportunity to serve more, he can do better,” Jonathan said. At 61, the former president described Anyim is a bridge between the old and the young and that fact was not lost on Jonathan when he said: “Today, we are celebrating a young man but you are getting old now. At 61 years, you are no longer very young but you are willing to serve and as somebody who has served at the parliament as a Senate President, at the executive level as the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, it is quite tasking. “Having served in that position (SGF) for the period, I know he is fully baked and I didn’t received too many complaints. You know as a President, everyday you receive complains from those who work for you- the ministers, your aides, advisers, assistants and so on. I didn’t receive too many complains about Anyim Pius Anyim,” he added. Former Vice President, Namadi Sambo who came with Jonathan also took to the podium to pour encomiums on the celebrant, saying, “his leadership stabilized the Senate and we must be grateful for that. He was a team player who worked towards a prosperous nation. He can be trusteed with higher political responsibility in the future.” Former Minister of Justice and Attorney General of the Federation, Bello Adoke in his good will message described Anyim as ‘a team player, humble leader that is always ready yo take on any task for the good of his country.” Also speaking, former governor of Abia state, Sen. Theodore Orji said at 61, Anyim has a lot still to give to his fatherland. “If you look at the age he started, you will know that God has not finished with him,” he stated. One thing that could be gleaned from the outpour of encomiums was that good products always sell itself. The comments of Jonathan at the event may be read that he is not going to contest the 2023 presidential elections, whether in the PDP or the APC. For no politicians freely showered praises on anyone where he will eventually be a contestant Also, for a President from a ruling party commending a politician from opposition in the manner President Buhari did, shows that the President may not mind a successor to him in the person of Anyim. Amidst clamour for the PDP to chose it’s presidential ticket holder from the south and the presence of the Rivers state governor, Nysom Wike means a lot that the main opposition party is gradually reaching a consensus for a presidential candidate.