Omolabake Fasogbon As part of its empowerment initiatives, indigenous bedding firm, Mouka has supported its business partners with over N111 million worth of scholarships, laptops and educational materials for their children. The firm also presented N5 million worth of scholarships to 15 of its junior workers as an act of goodwill. Speaking at the presentation ceremony, Chief Executive Officer of Mouka, Raymond Murphy stated that the gesture was meant to appreciate partners who have remained committed and contributed to the organisation’s growth. He noted that the partners’ commitment was evident in the sales and distribution of the company’s portfolio of products to consumers across the country. Murphy said, “They have demonstrated an immense commitment to this partnership and Mouka’s revenue growth despite Nigeria’s economy for our mutual benefit. With extensive collaboration on many initiatives, they have made our brand a household name in Nigeria in pursuance of our mission of adding comfort to life.” On his part, Chief Operations Officer of Mouka, Femi Fapohunda promised that the company would continue to innovate towards the comfort of stakeholders, including its partners. “Mouka, for many, is a generational business passed from parent to child. We seek to empower the next generation of business partners through this initiative. We are safeguarding the future of our business by investing in our loyal business partners, their businesses and families,” he said. Also speaking, Chief Commercial Officer of the organisation, Dimeji Osingunwa thanked the partners, adding that the company would not have attained its present height without their input: “To reward them, we have consistently showered them with various gifts to expand their businesses, while also safeguarding their health and wellbeing. “In the recent past, we have presented trucks to our partners to ease the burden of distribution. Likewise, most of our business partners and families are on various health plans fully catered to by Mouka.”