Nigerian international midfield enforcer, Wilfred Ndidi, is set to play his 200th game for Leicester City in the Europa Conference League against Randers FC tonight. Leicester boss Brendan Rodgers admitted yesterday that it will cost more than £50million for any of the many big teams aiming to sign the Nigerian to lure him out of the club. Aston Villa Manager, Steven Gerard is believed to have made Ndidi his summer transfer target and has been assured of the £50million by the club’s management. But despite several leading Premier League clubs including Manchester United eyeing the ace midfielder, Ndidi insists he is settled at Leicester. And he certainly wouldn’t be available cheaply after Rodgers responded to claims the ace might cost £50million by replying: “He’s worth much more than that.” Holding midfielder Ndidi is under contract at Leicester until 2024 after joining in January 2017 from Genk. According to UK’s Mirror, Ndidi who recently moved into a new house locally, has started a young family and is also considering re-joining De Montfort University in Leicester to complete a business and management degree, which he put on hold in lockdown. “My business degree was on hold as at the time it was during lockdown and then my daughter came. “It is on hold but I am looking forward to it maybe next year,” stressed the Super Eagles midfielder yesterday. Ndidi has built up a good rapport in midfield alongside classy Belgian international Youri Tielemans at Leicester. Ndidi added: “I am enjoying every moment. Youri is a great player and a player I love playing with in the middle. “With his technique we both compliment each other. I am really happy because he is really doing well. “For the time I am just enjoying the moment as much as possible. We are working with each other to protect the team. “It has been really good.” Rodgers, who has also used Ndidi at centre-back, assessed: “He’s been a really important player in my time here for his role“You see the importance of the role I give him in the team in how he protects the others. “It’s a very young team as well and his experience and physicality helps those players. He’s been absolutely brilliant, whatever role I’ve asked him to play whether it’s centre-half or midfield. “He gives us great physicality and there’s still lots of areas of his game he’ll improve on. “I can’t speak highly enough of him. He’s a great guy who trains virtually every day – comes in with a joy to train and work well and learn. “In every single game he gives his all – he’s been first class during my time here. “A player of that quality with that mentality, of course you always want to keep. “But when you have that player he will always attract that interest. “But he seems very settled here and I know he’s moved into a new house over this last period and seems very happy. “He’s a pleasure to work with, a good guy and hopefully he can be around the club for many, many years.”