Guinness Nigeria Plc has informed that it is working towards strengthening its investment in Nigeria, just as its announced new expansion moves. The firm which recently acquired additional 25-acre commercial property in Ogba industrial area of lagos, stated that the move aimed to improve service to its esteemed customers, but more importantly to boost Nigerian employment figure. The management of the organisation in a statement added the organisation was on the verge of completing its new ultra-modern head office block, sited in lkeja, Lagos, adding plans are in gear to relocate to the new office in a couple of weeks. It also implored Nigerians to disregard the news that Guiness was planning to exit Nigerian market as well as sell its lkeja Brewery site. It stated the the information was false, malicious, and misleading, affirming that the company remained strong, stable, and delivering value to its esteemed stakeholders in Nigeria. It said,” Guinness Nigeria Plc. certainly has no plans to exit Nigeria, contrary to the orchestrated false publication making the rounds. We are renewed in our efforts to serve our revered consumers and creating more job opportunities for Nigerians as seen in the new $5million additional production line recently commissioned at our Brewery in Ogba, Lagos in October 2021. “We also recently announced our Half Year Unaudited Financial Result for the 6 months ended 31st December 2021 in which we notified our esteemed shareholders of our stellar performance where our 6 months’ Operating Profit grew by 266% to N13.6Billion. “We urge our employees, stakeholders, and members of the public to ignore the false, malicious, and misleading publication as it never emanated from the Management of Guinness Nigeria Plc. “Guinness Nigeria subscribes to the highest standards of corporate governance and will continue to demonstrate the highest standards of integrity, and especially guarantee that our engagement with consumers, government agencies, suppliers, shareholders, and other stakeholders is driven by our values and principles.”. The management further experessed confidence in Nigerian economy, adding that the company would continue to invest, develop capabilities and grow brands to suit consumers needs the same way it had done in the past 71 years.