By Ibrahim Oyewale, Lokoja Kogi State Deputy Governor, Mr. Edward Onoja, has admonished the youths in the state to align themselves with people with productive ideas in order to transform the society for better. Onoja gave this charge while speaking during the inspection of non-governmental organisation (NGO), Enemona Just Foundation’s (EJF) project at Inele-Ugoh community in Olamoboro Local Government Area of Kogi State at the weekend. The deputy governor disclosed that service to humanity is a panacea to societal challenges and commended the EJF for philanthropic gesture. He also gave kudos to the young man in his mid 30s, stressing that he has carved a niche for himself by touching lives in many communities in Kogi East and should be encouraged should to do more He lauded the Founder of the EJF, Mr. Gabriel David, for his philanthropic gesture, which he said has taken many youths off streets via his employment and empowerment programmes. The deputy governor commended the founder for prioritising the welfare of widows, orphanage and the people in his community; a move he said attracts God’s blessing here and thereafter. He pointed out that apart from touching the physical life of the people of the area, the church building project would take care of the spiritual needs of the people of the community to the goodness of God. Earlier in his remarks, David stated that the gesture was in pursuit of his vision of helping humanity and empowering communities to boost development in order to keep life in rural communities at relative par with those in urban cities. “The foundation was born out of the need to alleviate the hardship faced by the less privileged in term of poverty, poor health and educational system as well as the increasing economic challenges,” he said. He disclosed that the church building with a capacity of 600 people he started a month ago for the people of Inele-Ugoh would be commissioned in April. David stressed that the church project was embarked upon for spiritual cleaning and to clear out the negative activities of their grand fathers against the missionaries