Ace comedian and social commentator, Amb. Francis Agoda better known as I Go Dye is all set for his signature musico-comedy show tagged “I Go Dye Standing” billed to hold April 17, 2022 (Easter Sunday), this time with the theme “I Go Dye Standing .. More Than A Legend” to commemorate his almost 30 years on stage. The show, which is being packaged by Seaside Entertainment Company in partnership with Ojeki Integrated Services, will be held at the Crown Heights Event Center, Country Home Road, G .R.A Benin City. The humour merchant will also be embarking on a global anniversary tour of the United Kingdom, U.S.A, Canada and Europe after staging the show across the country, specifically in Lagos, Portharcourt, Abuja and Delta State. I Go Dye has proven himself a legend as a stand-up comedian, having toured the world for almost three decades, entertaining millions of people from different races with rib-cracking jokes. It is therefore, no surprise that this global anniversary edition is themed “I Go Dye Standing… More Than A Legend.” “It will be a fun-filled experience with hilarious moments and breath-taking performances. For the Benin show the Diplomatic table, Global Table and Official Table go for N2M, N1.5 and N1M respectively while the ECOWAS and National Passes go for N20 thousand and N10 thousand naira respectively. ” I Go Dye stated. I Go Dye who has in his previous events never failed in featuring top entertainers in music and comedy says this is mother of all. In his first show held in 2009 in Benin for instance, I Go Dye singlehandedly featured the entire Mo Hits crew including D’Banj, Wande Coal, D Prince, Ikechuku MI and others while he also sold out the 02 Arena in London to mark his 20 years on stage in 2015. The visionary comedian and social crusader has over the years made meaningful impacts right from childhood but his forte is comedy which has taken him around the world, not only making people laugh but impacting the world with his social crusades for good governance.