Regulators should enforce building codes and standards The collapse of a building housing the Salvation Ministry in Okpanam, Oshimili North Local Government Area, Delta State, and the attendant death of 10 worshippers and injury to many is another tragedy that is representative of what has become a trend in the country. The worshippers, said to be holding the first New Year 21-day fasting and prayer service, were on the verge of receiving the Holy Communion when the rented apartment suddenly caved in. In the process many of the victims, including children and women were trapped in the rubble. Although the Delta State Government has constituted a panel of enquiry to probe the immediate and remote causes of the collapse, we note that this tragedy is very familiar. Indeed, building collapse has been a worrisome trend in many parts of the country. But as has been outlined on several occasions, some of the causes vary from poor enforcement of regulations, building with substandard materials, quackery, and official compromise in the system, especially where influential developers are involved. It is quite unfortunate that scores of lives have continued to be needlessly lost from the prevalence of this malaise. The case of the collapsed Ikoyi Tower was ascribed to regulatory failure as the developer was said to have defied official approval by erecting a 21-floor structure in apparent violation of the 15-floor approved limit. It was also the case when 116 lives were lost when a six-storey guest house belonging to the Synagogue Church of All Nations in Lagos, collapsed on 12th September 2014. A probe report by the Lagos State government established that there was no approval for the ill-fated building in stark contravention of Section 75 of the Urban and Regional Planning Lagos State 2010. In its report, the Council for the Regulation of Engineering in Nigeria (COREN) said the building lacked adequate foundation. In addition, it noted there was no evidence it was supervised by a structural engineer. While we recommend sanctions for those who may be found guilty of the criminal negligence that led to many of the fatal collapse of buildings in recent years, government should do a complete overhaul of the nation’s building and construction regulations. Several reasons are responsible for the incessant collapse of buildings in Nigeria. These causes range from violation of safety measures when erecting the structures to the use of untested products and materials as well as lack of adequate regulations and sanctions against offenders. More worrisome is the rate at which places of worship collapse. All over the country, there is a glaring failure of the regulating agencies to properly perform their supervisory roles, giving rise to a situation where quacks have taken over the building sector. Quite naturally, most of these characters seem interested only in how to cut costs, even if it means circumventing laid down regulations. Such a state of affair can only breed the kind of disaster we experience from time to time. It is therefore important that there be a synergy between government and professional bodies to minimise the occurrence of these tragedies. This can be accomplished through the imposition of regulatory control and enactment of laws to guarantee that buildings are designed and constructed in such a way that is conducive to public safety and welfare. From the architectural design stage to civil and structural engineering, actual construction and completion of a project, efforts must be made to ensure that stipulated regulations are strictly adhered to and there are no shortcuts aimed at minimising costs.