Onuminya Innocent In Sokoto The Senator representing Imo West senatorial district, Owelle Rochas Okorocha, has advised Nigerians to elect leaders who would unite the country rather than the ones who would cause divisions, in 2023. Okorocha made the call yesterday in Sokoto at the Sultan of Sokoto palace when he paid him a condolence visit over the death of Magaji Garin Sokoto, Hassan Danbaba. According to the former governor of Imo State, “Nigeria needs a leader who would fix and unite the country. As we are approaching 2023, we need to be careful in selecting those who would lead us.” Okorocha, who admitted that there is hunger, poverty, killing and economic downturn in the country, implored Nigerians to be wary of politicians in sheep clothing who have nothing to offer the country. He further disclosed that Nigeria needed somebody who has a track record and ability to fix the country, adding that he was not in Sokoto for politics, but to condole with Sultan, the governor and the people of Sokoto State. The senator said: “You can’t play politics with death. I’m in the town on condolence over the death of my friend and brother, Magaji Garin.” He described Hassan Danbaba as a detribalised Nigerian, who has friends across the country. He disclosed that the deceased is a patriotic Nigerian, who has left a legacy worthy of emulation, maintaining that Nigerians should unite and work together to rescue the nation from poverty, insecurity, and economic woes. Responding, the Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Muhammad Sa’ad Abubakar 111, thanked Okorocha for the visit. The monarch explained that different number of people who have been paying condolence over the death of Danbaba attested that Nigeria is indivisible. Okorocha also paid a condolence visit to Magaji Garin’s family, where he encouraged them to take solace in God since the deceased lived a fulfill life. Among those who were at the palace to receive the senator were students of Rochas Foundation in Sokoto. The students were seen thanking Okorocha for affording them the opportunity to basic education since the school is free of charge. He later visited to the state Governor, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal at the Government House.