Nigeria is one of the UK’s most important relationships and I am excited to be here for my first visit. Our two countries have a partnership built on mutual respect and deep and longstanding cooperation across a wide range of areas, underpinned by strong people-people ties. I am pleased to be here just a year away from Nigeria’s seventh presidential election since the return of democracy in 1999. As the largest democracy in Africa, what happens in Nigeria matters across the continent and Nigeria can set a democratic example for others to follow. As President Buhari said in Brussels last week, “Free, fair, credible, and transparent elections remain crucial elements in ensuring peace and security and promoting constitutional order, democracy, and inclusive governance on the continent”. I very much agree. During my visit, I am looking forward to seeing at first-hand how institutions and civil society partners are working to ensure the 2023 elections are peaceful, free, and fair. With these partners, we are supporting, amongst other things, increased political representation and participation for young people and women in Nigeria. I will review the support the UK has provided and see what more we can do. My visit follows the UK-Nigeria Security and Defence Partnership Dialogue in London earlier this month, at which we agreed to strengthen cooperation in a range of areas including military cooperation, counter terrorism, civilian policing, human rights and recognising the important role of women in achieving sustainable peace. Our cooperation to tackle insecurity and its effects is wide-ranging. For example, in relation to the ongoing conflict in North-East Nigeria and the Lake Chad Basin, where millions of people are in need of life-saving humanitarian assistance, the UK and international partners are working closely together to provide humanitarian aid to affected people and communities. Overall, the talks in London left me optimistic about the future of the UK-Nigeria bilateral relationship, and with a high level of ambition to expand ties across the board. For example, I want us to do more on bilateral trade. In 2020, UK-Nigerian trade totalled £3.2 billion, made up of £1.9 billion in UK exports and £1.3 billion in imports. As I have discussed with Nigeria’s High Commissioner to the UK, H.E. Ambassador Sarafa Tunji Isola, I firmly believe we could do better and I am committed to increasing bilateral trade, investment and economic cooperation. In light of this, I read with interest President Buhari’s article in the British press last month on the need for the UK to trade more with Africa. I am looking forward to exploring this topic in my discussions this week with the Nigerian government, including by discussing how to remove barriers to greater trade and investment. We are using all the UK’s strengths, bringing together UK aid, British firms, UK Export Finance (UKEF), and British International Investment (BII). Through our UK aid portfolio, we are working to promote and facilitate investment in Nigerian businesses, enabling them to grow and provide additional revenue and jobs. The UK intends to be the honest and reliable investment partner that African countries want. By promoting a liberal free trade approach, we will help create conditions that support businesses in all parts of the UK and across the African continent – and that includes our work to tackle corruption and illicit finance. When in Nigeria, I will sign an agreement related to anti-corruption, further strengthening the UK-Nigeria partnership and demonstrating a zero-tolerance approach to companies and people who bend the rules to gain unfair advantage. This will build on commitments the UK and Nigeria made last year following the signing the MoU between our two countries on the return of stolen assets. In my view, investing in Africa is the future. By 2040, African countries will have the largest youth population in the world. With the right investments, young people can realise their potential and be Africa’s greatest resource, driving economic growth across the continent.
Education is key to this. This week, I will discuss how the UK and Nigeria can work together to improve access to education in Nigeria, which has the highest number of primary aged children out-of-school in the world. The UK has already invested significantly in advancing the education of girls and boys in Nigeria. Over the last decade, UK support to basic education has contributed to significant enrolment gains and enabled improved systems for 11 state governments, reaching approximately 8 million children. Whilst here, I will cover a range of other priorities. I will announce new investments worth millions of pounds, including in support of low carbon-energy projects, and Small and Medium Sized Enterprises. I will meet people working on some of the new technologies that will help drive economic growth and help meet the challenge of climate change. Following the COP26 summit in Glasgow last year, we are working together with the Nigerian Government to support energy transition away from oil and gas whilst ensuring energy access for all, in line with Nigeria’s international climate commitments.
I am looking forward to engaging on all these areas and more during the next few days. •By Vicky Ford, The UK Minister for Africa, Latin America and the Caribbean Note for readers:
• Vicky Ford was appointed Minister for Africa at the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office in September 2021 and became the Minister for Africa, Latin America and the Caribbean in December 2021. • Previously she was the Parliamentary Under Secretary of State for Children and Families at the Department for Education from February 2020 to September 2021. • Vicky Ford was first elected as the Conservative MP for Chelmsford in 2017. See here for more background: https://www.gov.uk/government/people/vicky-ford • On 14 December 2021 Minister for Africa Vicky Ford spoke about her priorities in the role for 2022 in a speech she gave at Chatham House called “Africa and the UK: Priorities for engagement in 2022 – Minister for Africa speech at Chatham House” • Please find the full speech here: www.gov.uk/government/speeches/africa-and-the-uk-priorities-for-engagement-in-2022-minister-for-africa-speech-at-chatham-house