The Association of Corporate Affairs Managers of Banks (ACAMB), the umbrella association of marketing communications, public relations, media and creative professionals working in Nigeria’s banking sector, has paid glowing tributes to veteran public relations guru and founding president of the association, Mallam Kabir Dangogo, on his birthday today Monday, February 21, 2022.
In a congratulatory and goodwill message to Dangogo, ACAMB in a statement, eulogised him as the doyen of public relations in Nigeria, one of the most-celebrated communication strategists, a through-bred professional and an astute manager whose brilliant exploits across the broad spectrum of communication are legendary and unparalleled.
The President of ACAMB, Mr. Rasheed Bolarinwa, in tributes on behalf of the executives and members of the association, commended the visionary and leadership qualities of the veteran communicator and other founding members of ACAMB, saying their foresight, 26 years ago, gave birth to what has become a formidable professional platform in the Nigerian banking industry today.
‘‘Mallam Kabiru Dangogo is a living legend. He is and remains a respected and go-to authority on public relations as far as the theory and practice of financial public relations and reputation management as a discipline, is concerned, not only in Nigeria but globally.
“During his decades of professional practice, he made indelible contributions and footprints on the broad spectrum of communications and the banking industry and made his way to the Senior management team,” he said.
Bolarinwa further described the celebrant as a shining light worthy of emulation by the upcoming generation of communicators, even as he promised that the present executives of ACAMB under his leadership would do everything possible to preserve the legacy and milestones which Mallam bequeathed as the pioneer president of the association.
He added: ‘‘I had the opportunity to speak with him on the telephone a few days ago. His vivacious and affable personality is still as intact as ever. He is still as passionate about the profession that he practiced for over three decades. His ideals on professionalism and the need for aspiring professionals to seek knowledge are exemplary.
As an author, Mallam Dangogo, without any iota of doubt, revolutionised the profession of PR. As a nationalist, his sense of patriotism and commitment to a peaceful, great and prosperous Nigeria remain a dream that is very dear to his heart.’’
‘‘We at ACAMB celebrate Mallam Kabir Dangogo. We would like to assure him that the legacy which he and other founding fathers of ACAMB bequeathed to us shall be preserved. We congratulate you sir, and pray Almighty Allah continues to grant you continued health and strength,’’ Bolarinwa enthused.
The Septuagenarian is a man of many laudable accomplishments as an author, editor, scholar, entrepreneur, serial awards recipient and fellow of numerous professional bodies across the globe.
His academic degrees include BSc honours and MSc from Ohio University, Athens, United States in 1981, and University of Leicester, United Kingdom (UK) in 1987. He was the Managing Editor of New Nigerian newspaper between 1988 and 1989;s a Senior Lecturer at Kaduna Polytechnic (KADPOLY) in the late 80s; and later Press Adviser, United States Information Service (USIS), in 1990.
After 32 years of working for various corporate organisations, Dangogo voluntarily retired at Union Bank in 2005, as Assistant General Manager (AGM), Corporate Affairs.