School Proprietor, politician, and former governorship aspirant in the Edo 2020 guber race, on the platform the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Mr. Kenneth Imansuangbon in an interview with Adibe Emenyonu harps on the merits of having former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar as the Peoples Democratic Party presidential in 2023 It is a near consensus that since the north under President Muhammadu Buhari, has ruled for eight years, it is the turn of the south. But recently, you were quoted as having sympathy for a northern candidate in the person of former Vice President Atiku Abubakar even when you party, the PDP has zoned the party chairmanship to north which is currently being occupied by Dr. Iyorchia Ayu. What informs your support for Abubakar? Zoning or no zoning, Atiku remains the only winning card PDP has to turn the table around against the lackluster leadership of the APC-led federal government under President Muhammadu Buhari. Atiku remains the best choice as candidate of the party among the several aspirants of the PDP to defeat the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) if the party is desirous of winning. Atiku has the prerequisite experience, contacts across the country and has impacted on many lives through his many humanitarian works. But he is not the only Nigerian politician with a good record of benevolence. Although I agree with you on that, but he is unique. Unique in the sense that he is not selfish with his wealth both material and knowledge. He has used his numerous enterprise to create employment for the teaming youths of this country. That is what stands him out among others. Here you are talking in favour of Akitu, but many Nigerians including some members of your party do not share the same sentiment. Some of them are of the opinion that age is not on his side for a man that will be almost 80 years by 2023. What is your defense? How on earth can someone argue that Atiku should not be given our party’s ticket on account of his age? Age is not a curse but a blessing. For example, it is on record that the founding father and former President of Singapore, late Lee Kuan Yew, became President at a very old age and he led his country into economic prosperity. Same with former President Ronald Reagan of the United State. So what are they talking about? Of recent, President of United States of America, Joe Biden who was elected last year was about two years shy of 80. Age should not be a barrier to determine who should preside over the affairs of Nigeria because human beings are not created with the same physique. What I want PDP members to understand and focus on is winning the election. We cannot field a candidate Nigerians do not know and trust. Those using the issue of age and zoning against the former Vice President are doing so for selfish and parochial reasons. Besides, Atiku is well known across the country. He is the best option to defeat the APC. Talking about fairness, do you think the North with the choice of Atiku is better than a Southern person either from South-east, South-south or South-west? If we should talk about fairness, equity and justice, power should remain in the North. And if it goes to the North, Atiku is the most qualified in the North and don’t forget that the North-east has not produced a President. Even if you leave the presidency open he is the most qualified and his presidency will usher in prosperity for the country. From 1999, the South has done 14 years while the North will have 11 years by the time Buhari completes his tenure next year. There is a four years deficit for the North to balance up. From calculation, the PDP which I belong to, the North has not finished its tenure. Obasanjo did eight years, Yar’Adua did two years and Jonathan did six years. In fairness they should take it to the North The PDP governors from the look of things are not looking towards the direction of Atiku as candidate of the party but one of their own. How do you react to this? I want to appeal to my party governors and other members to support Atiku aspiration to take the party to victory in 2023. I am passionately appealing to them to look at the merit of winning rather than what people regard as a gang up. They (PDP) governors should thread with caution and call their supporters to order and refrain from casting aspersion on Atiku. That notwithstanding, I can see the handiwork of the APC-led federal government in all this controversy of zoning or no zoning. Because they are afraid of Atiku, the APC wants to force PDP to tow their line. The reason why they want PDP governors to zone their ticket to the South is because they know their own ticket will be in the South. And if that happens, God forbid, they will side with a northern candidate from any other party and tell their subjects to vote along religious lines.