Lagos Leighton Kings quest for four major titles in the ongoing 2022 Lagos International Polo Tournament was brutally cut short by surprise winners, Kano Lintex in the explosive seven chukkas Majekodunmi Cup final over the weekend. Before this upset, Leighton had won three major cups, the Oba of Lagos Cup, the Open Cup and the Lagos Heritage Cup respectively in their quest for a repeat of their 2020 sterling achievement. They were leading 11-9 till the final chukka of the intense thriller, when two quick-fire equalisers from Lintex Patron, Bashir Dantata and Chris Mackenzie sent the grueling match to the wire. Hope by the Leighton Kings quartet of Abdulrahaman Mohammed, Juan Gris Zavaleta, Guillermo Toreira and team patron, Bowale Jolaosho to rescue their fading fortunes in the sudden death chukka faded in the sun when Lintex received a 60 yard penalty with seconds left on the clock. Visiting Lintex team, boasting Zadik Dantata, Bashir Dantata, Chris Mackenzie and Silvestre Donovan who had earlier defeated Lagos Caverton to win the Italian Ambassadors Cup a day earlier, were in the cloud when Mackenzie sent Lagos to sleep with a superb golden gold winner. Visiting Murtala Laushi powered Jos Malcomines and Bode Makanjuola’s Caverton teams were the other top finishers of the second stage of the international polo festival reputed as the biggest in Africa. They both earned Italian Ambassador’s Cup and Heritage Cup runners-up prizes. The prestigious Eko Polo Festival that galloped off with fanfare February 8, 2022 enters its final stages this week with 17 ambitious teams expected to display their horsemanship and playing skills on the mallets as the month-long polo extravaganza winds down to its grand finale. Lagos Polo Captain, Rotimi Makanjuola confirmed that the final stage will run from today, February 22and climax on Sunday February 27, 2022, with nine Lagos’ teams and eight visiting teams gunning for two major prizes, the Silver Cup and the Lagos Low Cup respectively. It was also learnt that the Lagos-based teams that would be vying for the Low Cup include Golden Ranch, Polo Punks, A Plus, former champions, STL and Caverton teams., just as tough and determined visiting oppositions are expected from Port Harcourt, Abuja and Ibadan. Four teams, Elektron Aragorn, Aragorn Saopolo, Hyde Energy Aragorn and Lagos Vipers are the Lagos flag bearers jostling for the glittering Silver Cup at the famous Ribadu Road Polo Ground in Ikoyi starting from today. Makanjuola also disclosed that Ibadan Durante Foods, Kano Novo team, Sidafeco Group from Port Harcourt and debuting Nigerian Navy team would mount strong oppositions to the home teams in the race for the winner-takes-all Silver Cup.