Alex Enumah Justice Zainab Abubakar of the Federal High Court in Abuja on Monday granted request of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) to keep the suspended Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) Abba Kyari, in its custody for another fourteen days pending the conclusion of investigation of the ‘supercop’ and six others over drug related crimes. Justice Abubakar granted the request while delivering ruling in an exparte application argued by NDLEA’s Director, Prosecution and Legal Services, Joseph Sunday. The application was specifically for an order of court to keep Kyari and his co-defendants with NDLEA pending conclusion of investigation. Kyari has been in custody of the agency since February 14 when he was first arrested and handed over to the NDLEA, which had declared him wanted for alleged involvement in drug deals. Only yesterday, the suspended DCP had approached the court for an order for his release from NDLEA’s custody, which according to him is holding him illegally over trumped up charges and also breaching his fundamental rights. But the anti hard drug agency, in an application before Justice Abubakar said, it still needs more time to conclude its investigation of Kyari and six others suspected to be part of an international drug cartel operating in the country. Others being investigated alongside Kyari include; Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) Sunday Ubia, Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP) Bawa James, Inspectors, Simon Agirigba, John Nuhu as well as Chibunna Umeibe and Emeka Ezenwanne. An affidavit in support of the motion ex-parte indicated that Abba Kyari’s accomplices were arrested on January 19 at the Enugu international Airport and that they have admitted being drug couriers. “The suspects were arrested upon their arrival from Addis Ababa aboard an Ethiopian Airlines flight ET917. “The arrest led to the recovery of substantial quantity of powdery substance suspected to be cocaine from the two narcotic couriers. “The operation which was intelligence-driven, was undertaken by a Unit of the Police Intelligence Response Team (IRT),” NDLEA had in the application pleaded for more time to detain Kyari and others on the ground that the hard drug trafficking allegations against the suspect were complex and may require the agency traveling outside the shore of the country to make some clarifications on the matter. In a short ruling, the court ordered that Abba Kyari and the six other suspects be detained for another 14 days in the first place and can come up with fresh request if needs warrant. The Judge however ordered that the 14 days further detention should start counting from February 22.