SHAREit is an app that lets you share files quickly without using any mobile data. Their goal is to help users access seamless digital content of the highest possible quality. Addressing the fact that two years ago, the world began a switch to what has come to be accepted as “the new normal”. The first notable shift was apparent in lifestyle. Since families, corporate organisations, students etc. were confined, everyone had to embrace the internet culture and resort to living digitally. This altered the way information was shared, files/documents were distributed and entertainment was achieved. Increased digital entertainment demands was first highlighted as the world’s biggest video platform YouTube consistently records higher numbers of video consumers compared to previous years. A forecast on Statista reflects that this number will almost double by 2025. Similar consumer behaviour is seen in more nuanced peer-to-peer content sharing apps. Given the existing trends, 2022 will see an uptick in video content sharing as consumer preference will largely remain for videos. Increased Data consumption, driven by improving Internet infrastructure was secondly noted as conversations are being held to ensure internet affordability in nations across the world. In recent times however, the move for internet affordability has expanded beyond advocacy to deliberate initiatives and actions being taken by individuals, corporations and the Nigerian government to ensure more citizens aren’t deprived of internet possibilities due to data challenges. Same is seen in the Nigerian market where internet users are now installing more apps, playing more games, and sharing more files as a result of improved data and internet infrastructure. In Nigeria, users are particularly surging towards applications with faster speed without mobile data consumption such as SHAREit Lite. Putting all these into account, it’s safe to say that this year, access to data and internet affordability will strongly impact the peer-to-peer content sharing landscape in Nigeria.
Smartphone & broadband penetration as well as Afrobeats hitting the Mainstream Pop Culture among Gen Z and Millennials are other trends as the internet is fast-becoming the world of creators. Modern young content creators, influencers, celebrities, as well as organisations are looking to maximise trends to connect with the audience and leverage common pop-culture in the categories of entertainment. In 2021, popular afrobeats from countries like Nigeria, Ghana and other African nations dominated mainstream social media, and had multiple sharing replications within and beyond the continent. In 2022, more afrobeats will take the center stage, with companies backing talents to create connections with their brands. SHAREit Lite connects with the young population of Nigeria who love afrobeats through its localised operations and fun activities. The young population can easily share files such as study notes, music, videos, images etc without the internet data charges. The company also recently organised various activities in the country like campus music stars in association with Boomplay to give the youth an opportunity to showcase their talent to the world. Another online initiative was taken by the company during the holiday season where users could participate in the exciting activities of the mobile app while engaging with their families and friends