Gideon Arinze in Enugu The Enugu State chapter of the All-Progressives Congress (APC) has raised the alarm over the alleged exclusion of the party in from forth coming local government elections. With the election slated for Wednesday, February 23, the APC is accusing the Enugu state Independent Electoral Commission (ENSIEC) of refusing to publish a list of 260 councillorship and 17 chairmanship candidates forwarded to the electoral body in December 2021. Addressing party faithful yesterday, state chairman of the APC, Ugochukwu Agballah, declared that the party would void the election should the ENSIEC go ahead to hold it without allowing members of the party to take part in the exercise. He explained that the party held its primaries to elect chairmanship and councillorship candidates on December 18 and 19, 2021, after which it submitted the list of successful candidates to ENSIEC, which it accepted. “But ENSIEC decided to publish the list submitted by Ben Nwoye, a former suspended Caretaker Chairman of APC,” although they know he is no longer the chairman” he alleged. He noted that the party had written a series of letters to ENSIEC with evidence to show that he was the duly elected chairman of the APC in the October 16, 2021 state congress. “But ENSIEC, led by Chief Mike Ajogwu, a senior advocate of Nigeria (SAN), playing the script of the PDP-led government and in collaboration with some rogue elements in APC, decided to engage in mischief, by excluding APC from the poll. This is what they have been doing in the past, which is why APC has never won any election in the state,” he said. Agballah announced that the legal team of the party, led by a SAN, (not named) had already filed a suit at the State High Court to void the election for unlawful exclusion, which he said was a breach of the Nigerian Constitution and the Electoral Act. The APC chairman accused the ruling PDP government in the state of colluding with some unscrupulous elements in the APC to manipulate ENSIEC to frustrate APC from participating in the council poll. He maintained that he joined the APC to ‘rescue Enugu people from PDP’s bad leadership, monopoly and selectocracy where unpopular and incompetent candidates are always selected and imposed on the people. “I have come to break the jinx of PDP’s political monopoly since 1999,” he said. “My emergence as chairman has been causing fears within the ranks of the state government and the ruling party”.