Yinka Kolawole reports that Governor Adegboyega Oyetola of Osun has picked the ticket at the All Progressives Congress governorship primary in Osun State, having thoroughly thrashed Alhaji Moshood Adeoti, candidate of the Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola As the Osun All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship primary election has come and gone, also it is believed the wave of crises and factions in the APC must have been reduced by the defeat of the Minister of the Interior, Rauf Aregbesola’s candidate, Alhaji Moshood Adeoti by the incumbent Governor Gboyega Oyetola. On Saturday, February 19, members of the APC Osun State, filed out to elect a governorship candidate. At the end of the exercise, Osun State Governor, Gboyega Oyetola emerged the winner of the primary election conducted in all the 332 wards of the state. Two aspirants contested alongside Oyetola. They include the former Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives, Lasun Yusuff and a former Secretary to the State Government, Moshood Adeoti. Announcing the result in the early hours of Sunday at the state’s APC secretariat in Osogbo, Osun APC Primary Election Committee, led by Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq of Kwara State said accredited voters were 247,207 while the total vote cast was 235,550. Governor Gboyega Oyetola beat the Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola’s candidate, Adeoti with a wide margin of 222,169 votes to 12921, while Lasun polled 460 votes. Speaking on this historic occasion on the peaceful conclusion of the primary election and his emergence as the candidate of the APC in Osun, Oyetola gave glory to the Almighty God for making it possible. He said, “Once again, our great party has spoken as a beacon of democracy and strong and united channel of development. “ He remarked that with the outcome of the contest, “we have jointly made a resolve to continue to redefine governance and re-entrench sustainable democracy.” According to him, “Today’s victory is made possible by the members of our great party who gave us another opportunity to face the people of Osun to seek re-election. The outcome of this primary election is victory for our party and members who have spoken loudly through their votes. “ “It is victory for our people who trooped out in large number during our strategic tour of the State to inform them of our intention to seek a second term. It is a restatement of their confidence in our development agenda which hope delivered in 2018 and performance sealed in 2022. It is evidence of their believe in sustainable development which we brought into governance and preached every inch of the way.” “l thank you all our party members for your constant support, and especially for speaking eloquently today with your massive votes in favour of our administration’s restoration and consolidation agenda.” Oyetola said “With this primary election now concluded, I invite us all to rededicate ourselves and the party to delivering an overwhelming victory at the gubernatorial polls holding on Saturday, 16th July, 2022.” “For me, we are all winners. I, therefore, extend my hand of fellowship to the other two aspirants to join me as we prepare for the July election. We are all brothers. Let’s join hands to build the Osun of our dream.” He cautioned that, “Let us close ranks and eschew bitterness in whatever form. Therefore, may I use this opportunity to also ask all our aggrieved members to have a rethink and join hands with us to further strengthen our party and deliver outstanding results at the gubernatorial poll.” “l thank my brother Governor and Chairman of the Osun Governorship Primary Election Committee, His Excellency, Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq and all members of his team for conducting a hitch-free exercise. I pray God return them to their various destinations in peace. “ He equally thanked all the security agencies for living up to expectation and for helping us to guard jealously our enviable status as the most peaceful State in Nigeria. “To all our citizens, we thank you for standing by us in the journey of these three years plus. I promise not to let you down in the years ahead.” “As we commence the electioneering campaigns, I urge all contestants across party lines to perform this exercise with utmost decency and not jeopardize the peace and tranquillity our State is noted for. This is the least our people deserve and the beauty democracy requires.” Also in his remarks the APC Chairman, Prince Gboyega Famodun commended the committee saddled with the responsibility as well as the National electoral commission for the performance leading to the success of the exercise. Governor AbdulRazaq hailed the peaceful conduct of the exercise. The Kwara Governor thanked APC members for the huge turnout and their peaceful conduct. He said the happenings have contradicted the expectations of many over the exercise. AbdulRazaq spoke with reporters after monitoring the primary in Iragbiji, the hometown of Governor Adegboyega Oyetola.
He said: “Let me congratulate the people of Osun State and members of the All Progressives Congress (APC). What is happening here shows that the party is alive and strong. You can see that from the huge turnout. “If you open the pages of newspapers today, it was painted was a picture of the war in Osun. But the primaries election have been peaceful. I congratulate the people of Osun and all the aspirants. They have all done well.” As the entire members of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) cast their votes for their preferred aspirant in Osun, Governor Adegboyega Oyetola expressed confidence that he would emerge victorious in the ongoing primary election of the party. The Governor who applauded the members of the party for turning out in large number said, “losing was not an option for a man commissioned by God for an assignment.” Oyetola spoke shortly after he cast his vote at Ward 1, Boripe Local Government Area, Iragbiji on Saturday. He lauded Osun people for conducting themselves peacefully, saying the peaceful conduct of the election has testified to the fact that Osun remains the most peaceful State in the country. The Governor noted that news of violence making the rounds were mere speculations. This followed rumours in the build-up to the state’s primary election of the All Progressive Congress of possible onslaught by the members of the splinter group within the party called TOP. The group, comprising loyalists of immediate past governor and current Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola, had produced two aspirants Alhaji Moshood Adeoti, who was a former Secretary to the State Government, and Hon. Lasun Yusuff, a former Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives. But Adeoti was preferred by Aregbesola. Oyetola however appealed to citizens across the state to maintain peace and decorum, adding that elections should not be a battle. “By the grace of God I will emerge victorious. To us, losing is not an option for a man commissioned by God for an assignment. “I just want to appeal to all our people across the state to maintain peace. Election process should not be a battlefield or a do-or-die affair. Let everyone exercise his/her tight to choose in determining who represents them at the party level and ultimately at the general elections. “So far so good, I think this process has gone well contrary to the speculation of violence. We have been in contact with a number of places and we have received positive signals of peace. “Really, I don’t see why choosing a candidate to represent the party should be a thing of violence”, he said Oyetola Beats Aregbesola in his Ward The embattled factional leader of the APC, Rauf Aregbesola lost in his ward to the incumbent Governor Gboyega Oyetola of Osun State during governorship primary election in the state. The primary which was conducted under peaceful atmosphere in Ilesa showed that the incumbent Governor polled a total number of 309 votes while Moshood Adeoti who was the candidate of Aregbesola polled 146 votes at Ward 8, Ilesa East. However, Aregbesola who was not visible in the state for the primary election, was said to have left Ilesa for Abuja on Saturday morning for an unspecified unofficial duty. Consequently, stakeholders as well as supporters of APC were visibly angry for Aregbesola absence during the primary election. Some APC supporters contended that Aregbesola must have left the state to avoid humiliation because it was visible that he was going to fail in his ward. Also, the supporters added that what happened at the primary election in Ilesa would was a painful disgrace for the factional leader because he had boasted before the election that he was going to beat the incumbent Governor hands down, but the reverse was the case. Meanwhile, one of Aregbesola’s aide who does not want his name mentioned told THISDAY that his boss was on official assignment to Abuja. When asked if his absence will result to a low morale to Adeoti’s supporters, he retorted that Aregbesola’s presence may not stop his victory or stop him from defeating the incumbent. Meanwhile Governor Gboyega Oyetola has described the governorship primary election as a good turnout and meaningful. He said ” I thank God that we were able to do it peacefully. All the members of the party have the opportunity to decide who will carry the flag of the party…I happened to be one of the aspirants as well and I don’t expect anything less”. According to him “I want to appeal to all our people all over the state to please maintain peace. This election process should not be a battle field. It’s should not be a do or die affair. There should be no violence. Let everybody have the opportunity of participating in his choice of who should be the candidate of our party. I think that’s the process and I think it has gone very well contrary to the speculation.” He said he ” i called (on the phone) some places in the state, I think it’s been peaceful conduct of the process.: At many of the Polling Units, there was noticeable absence of the Polling agents of other aspirants. This may not not be unconnected with the threats of violence widely promoted by loyalists of all the contestants. Oyetola said, “That’s not my job, it’s their choice. I mean we had the stakeholders meeting, we are all expected to have our agents around here, perhaps for whatever reason they decided not to be part of it, so I’m not bothered at all. God is always in control, absolutely in control. Why should there be violence on the question of picking a candidate for the party?”
After casting his vote on the day of the primary election, Oyetola expressed that he will emerge victorious. “I’ll win by the grace of God. I want to appeal to all of us to see this issue as a family affair. It’s APC all through. We should brace up for the challenge ahead. We are going to face another party in this campaign we don’t know yet. I want to appeal to them to ensure that we have opportunity for reconciliation. It’s a family thing Deputy Governor Also in his remarks the Deputy Governor, Benedict Alabi said “We are having a peaceful and we’ll organised election here. Ward 06 of Irewole Local Government Area of the state, it has been orderly and people have assembled since 8am. He remarked everybody” here seems to be agog. I am happy we are having a peaceful, free and fair election. The fact is that there is only one candidate that is contesting the primary in Osun and that’s the incumbent Governor.” “We have the other factions with other two aspirants. They are not even visible in this community. The chairman of Alhaji Monshood Adeoti is the only one in this Ward standing for accreditation and election and that tells you that Governor Oyetola is the candidate to beat.” Senator Ajibola On his part Senator Ajibola Basiru representing Osun Central said when asked his impression of the turnout and expectations form the exercise said, “From what you have seen yourself, have you not seen that people are happy to participate in this exercise? This is the third ward I have been aside doing accreditation in my own ward. I have been to Ward 10 and now in Ward 9 and we have seen people ready and willing to vote and everything so far has been very peaceful and it is contrary to the impression that some people have given that there will be atmosphere of violence and I believe that at the end of the day, the person that enjoys the most support of our party members will emerge and you see the beauty of direct primary. The party members have taken over the control and will determine who will be their flag-bearer. I only appeal to those that would lose to accept in the spirit of democracy, unity, cohesion and development of our party to accept that in good faith and ensure that we join hands together to ensure the success of our party in the July election APC Factional Chairman Factional Chairman of All progressives Congress in Osun, Rasaq Salinsile from Ward 04, Isale-Oba, Iwo Local Government Area of Osun posited that he did not receive the register of the party, which is against the rule of the game before the primary. Speaking with THISDAY he said at least, each of the aspirant was expected to have a copy of the register of members but none of them has it. According to him “We raised it at the stakeholders meeting at the party secretariat. Many of our supporters can’t find their names on the register. Governor Oyetola is one of the National Caretaker Committee of the party and he is one of those that planned the primary election”. He remarked that no one will set exam questions and fail himself. All these anomalies will tell on the outcome of the election exercise. I see it as mere exercise, a waste of time and resources.
We said it earlier that there are Somethings that should be carried out before this election. As a member of the caretaker committee, Oyetola should have resigned 30 days before this election but he refused to resign. . He said “this primary was earlier scheduled to hold on March 5 but it was brought back to February 19 because the National Convention would come up on February 26 and he knew that new set of people will be on board and he wouldn’t have the kind of influence he has now by then. That’s why he is making nonsense of this exercise.” Governor Gboyega Oyetola, he said was only abusing the position he holds as a member of CECPC. So, whatever comes out of this exercise is a nullity, we won’t take it. Widespread Irregularities It is necessary and important to inform the general public and Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrasaq led Osun APC Primary Election Committee of wide spread irregularities in the conduct of the primary election of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the State of Osun. Abiodun Agboola
Factional Publicity Secretary, Osun APC strongly condemned the conduct of the primary election because He said it was nothing but a sham with a fraudulent process to favour Governor Adegboyega Oyetola. “Verified information from the agents of Alhaji Moshood Adeoti, our governorship aspirant, had it that there were no record and result sheets in any of the 332 wards of the state. Also, there were no proper accreditation in majority of the ward collation centres where voting was taken place. The accreditation done in some places were skewed in favour of Governor Gboyega Oyetola as members of the group were allowed to pass through accreditation process without much ado. Names of sizeable number of members of the APC who wanted to vote for Adeoti were missing in the register of the party. This we had envisaged by calling for the display of party register before the conduct of the primary. We also need to inform the general public that appointees of governor Adegboyega Oyetola were used as Collation Officers, which made the rigging plan of Oyetola an easy task. This we strongly condemn at the stakeholders meeting with the Primary Committee. Loyalists and supporters of Adeoti were being chased and some were brutally attacked in wards where they have strong presence. Oriade, Olorunda and Osogbo, Odo-Otin, Boripe and Ile-Ife are the worse of this act of intimidation and disenfranchisement. Where results of election were announced (not recorded), the figure declared for Oyetola was highly inflated in the affected wards. INEC officials were noticeably absent in most of the wards to monitor the election. This is unacceptable. It is a shame that a sitting governor could resort to malpractices in his desperate bid to secure a second term ticket. The Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrasaq led Osun APC Primary Election Committee should know that the primary lacks credibility and fairness. Aregbesola’s Words of Admonition Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola , said, “I thank you most sincerely for heeding the call earlier this morning to participate in our party’s governorship primary and conduct yourselves most peacefully. You adopted a non-violent posture, even in the face of sore provocation. You have demonstrated your loyalty to the party and democratic ideals. You have comported yourselves as Omoluabi in the true essence. We have received and continue to receive the reports of the shenanigans of the officials who conducted the sham of an election. We have been inundated with reports state-wide of how your names were expunged from the party’s voters register, which was not made available until this morning, contrary to the convention of making the list available to the candidates before the election. “We have heard of how party registration cards were being hawked this morning to the supporters of the state governor. We have also received reports of how accreditation was not done at all in many wards and how people without the party identification just participated and queued behind the governor in many polling units. “We have received the report from our members and independent observers, how government officials and notable supporters of the governor officiated in the election, how votes were farcically counted in favour of the governor and how the votes recorded for him were more than the number of voters accredited ab initio in many units. We have heard of the absence of result sheets and other vital documents for recording results and vital data. We note also the absence of INEC officials in most wards, casting serious doubt on the credibility of the election. We note with shame and much regret the consternation of local and international observers on what they regard as a travesty of an election. I will urge you to maintain your cool and calm. Be not downcast, be not agitated. Hold your head high. We are still receiving and studying all these reports and will take a definitive position on them. You are urged not to take laws into your hands. Please leave the rest to the Almighty God and let us explore all peaceful and legal means for addressing the matter in order to obtain justice. Please remain committed to peace and the rule of law. Be unflinching in your commitment to the democratic ideals. Democracy is for the long haul. As you all know, we never tire and we never give up on the cause we believe in. Be rest assured that victory is ours.”