James Sowole in Abeokuta As politicians are scheming for the 2023 presidency, youth groups of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), yesterday, asked a former Vice President, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, to break his silence and declare in the affirmative, to contest for the nation’s presidency. The groups, under the aegis of Southern Youth Alliance (SOYA), made the call, at a news conference and march for Atiku by some PDP members at the Ogun State Party Secretariat. Armed with placards of various inscriptions, party members specifically, said that they were not comfortable with the seeming silence or reluctance of Atiku in declaring his intention to contest the presidential election. Some of the placards read: “Southern Youth Say Atiku Run Run Run; Atiku Will Create Jobs for Youth; Atiku Will Fix Economy If Elected; Age Has Nothing To Do With Competence; Atiku Has Competence and Character among others.” Addressing journalists at the event, the SOYA president, Comrade Ridwan Ismaheel, the challenge before Nigeria as a nation, requires that we search for a leader who, from his antecedents, is fit for the precarious situation, that the country has found itself. He said: “Nigeria needs a leader who is not bigoted, someone who can pick up the pieces and mend the divisions in the country from North to South; West to the East. A leader who can bring everyone to the roundtable and have a discussion around these issues that beset the nation. “The man who fits into that call is someone that is widely known, through the length and breadth of this country and that person is Atiku Abubakar. Atiku possesses the set skills to fix Nigeria and make Nigeria a great country again! “He has the competencies and the skills to rework our national economy and make us competitive again in the area of education and innovations. “For us in the Southwest, the ideas that Atiku Abubakar has espoused through the years reflect the aspirations of our people. “He is one leader who has expressly committed to restructuring even when it was not politically popular to do so. “Atiku believes that there is an over-concentration of power in the Central Government and advocates that more power and resources should be delegated to states. . “It is therefore on this note that we wish to express our discomfort to the campaign of calumny against the candidature of His Excellency Atiku Abubakar in the upcoming 2023 presidential election. “In the same breath, we are also not comfortable with the seeming silence or reluctance of Atiku in declaring his intention to contest the presidential election. “We are respectfully making a demand that His Excellency Atiku Abubakar breaks the air about his ambition to run for the 2023 presidential election and make a declaration in the affirmative. “We are also using this opportunity to give a guarantee of our utmost support and the willingness to give our all in campaigning door to door to mobilize fellow youth to follow a leader who has the skill and competencies to salvage the country.”