Segun Awofadeji in Gombe The federal government in collaboration with Gombe State will establish another grazing reserve in Nono district of Yalmatu Deba Local Government Area of the state. The establishment of the reserve is aimed at consolidating on the gains so far recorded in the national livestock transformation programme. The state Commissioner for Agriculture and Animal Husbandry, Muhammad Magaji Getado, who disclosed this yesterday at a meeting with officials of Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association, Gombe State chapter, explained that the Nono grazing reserve, which is expected in a one hundred hectares of land, will consist of solar and motorised boreholes, clinics for both humans and animals, a milk collection centre and a hay growing field for animal feeds among other facilities. He said the establishment of a new grazing reserve in Nono district would not undermine the gains so far recorded in Wawa-Zange grazing reserve, but a deliberate and conscious effort by the federal and the Gombe State Governments to bolster livestock production. Getado said the present administration of Governor Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya is committed towards the smooth implementation of the federal government livestock transformation agenda in the state. It is for this reason that the state Commissioner for Agriculture and Animal Husbandry disclosed that plans have reached an advanced stage to commence the vaccination of livestock in the state. The commissioner appealed to members of Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association in the state to be vigilant in maintaining peace and security by reporting to security agencies any suspicious movement within their vicinity. Speaking earlier, the Chairman of Miyetti Allah, Modibbo Yahaya, thanked the administration of Governor Yahaya for being steadfast towards the welfare of its members in the state. “The establishment of the Nono grazing reserve is another step in the right direction; so to me, herders have never had it this good in the state, and we want to sincerely thank the governor for always being there for us,” he stated. Moddibo Yahaya used the occasion to call on the federal government to expedite action towards the inauguration of facility at the Wawa-Zange grazing reserve so that herders can begin to reap the benefits of the National Livestock Transformation Programme of the government.