John Shiklam in Kaduna Two separate groups, The Mass Interest Project (TMIP)and The Youth For Transparency Initiative (TYTI) have called on the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Godwin Emefiele, to contest for the 2023 Presidency. The Mass Interest Project, has prevailed on Emefiele, to throw his hat in the ring and contest the 2023 presidential election.
In a statement, titled, ”The Charge 2023”, issued weekend, TMIP, said the country’s next president should be an experienced entrepreneur and or a business leader, adding that the person the cap best fits to take over the mantle of leadership in the country was no other than the CBN governor. On his part, President, TYTI, Koko Umar, in a statement yesterday, in Kaduna,said the CBN governor was one of the great Nigerians who had demonstrated competence and capacity in public service and should be trusted with the leadership of the country.
The group said, as the governor of the CBN, Emefiele has made tremendous achievements that qualifies him to run for the presidency in 2023.
“One of the great Nigerians who has contributed to the development of country is the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Dr. Godwin Emefiele,” the group said. According to TMIP, ”As expected, there is already tension across the country. From East to West, North to South, Nigerians are beginning to feel the heat as the political gladiators go on the hustings, perfecting their art to play the game to know how tom play with ruthless efficiency. ”These are men and some women who are well versed in political deception, intimidation, blackmail and are also experts in the arts of violence which they readily deploy to exact vengeance or force compliance to their will and desire.
”They are also adept at making promises they cannot keep or are not capable of supporting. They have been there from the beginning, from the First Republic, Second Republic, Third Republic, Fourth Republic and continued to rule the coast, even up to the present political dispensation. ”We, the people, work to manifest the Nigeria of our hope on our way to greatness! We march, fiercely guarding the vision and liberty to build a Nigeria we believe in, not a career politicians but as citizens with an equal stake in this Republic. ”Yes, we are on the march, in search of the next leader of our country. Behold we have found a man with a proven track record of loyalty, patriotism and understanding for sustainable development. A man, whose name connotes a date with destiny. ”Godwin Ifeanyichukwu Emefiele, would you lead our people on this march for a better Nigeria? Would you lead The Charge 2023?
Similarly, the TYTI maintained that since his appointment as CBN governor in 2014, Emefiele has been relentless in building a strong financial system to strengthen the nation’s economy. “His unrelenting efforts at the apex bank has helped to navigate the Nigerian economy through turbulent economic challenges to growth and inclusiveness in policy development and implementation. “Under Emefiele the (CBN) is more people focused, as its policies and programmes are tailored towards supporting small businesses and job creation.
“Under his leadership, the CBN introduced various interventions, which aimed at growing the economy, job creation and lifting people out of poverty. “Under him, the CBN introduced 37 intervention funds targeted at stimulating the economy and addressing the issue of unemployment.
“Through the development finance initiatives, the bank granted N756.51 billion to 3,734,938 small holder farmers of which N120.24 billion was extended for the 2021 Wet Season to 627,051 farmers under the Anchor Borrowers’ Programme (ABP)”, the group enumerated. According to the group, this has revolutionised rice production in Nigeria, saving the country from spend over N356 billion annually on rice importation which had hitherto affected local production negatively. “The rice pyramid recently showcased in Abuja is a proof that we have broken the chains of rice importation,” it said.
The statement further noted Emefiele’s achievements in implementation of the National Youth Investment Fund (NYIF), in which the CBN released N3.0 billion to 7,057 beneficiaries, of which 4,411 were individuals and 2,646 SMEs. “In the creative industry, N3.22 billion was disbursed to 356 beneficiaries across movie production, movie distribution, software development, fashion, and IT verticals, under the Creative Industry Financing Initiative (CIFI)
“Also the CBN under the N1.0 trillion Real Sector Facility, released N923.41 billion to 251 real sector projects, of which 87 were in light manufacturing, 40 in agro based industry, 32 in services and 11 in mining. In the health sector the CBN disbursed N98.41 billion for 103 health projects under the bank’s Healthcare Sector Intervention Facility (HSIF). “These are just a few of the many achievements recorded by Emefiele the past seven years at the apex bank.
“His significant support for the Nigerian economy through the use of intervention funds to boost growth is laudable.
“He has proven himself to be a diligent and determined public servant whose track records will remain indelible in history.
“It is for this that the TYTI wishes to passionately appeal to Emefiele to contest for the 2023 presidency.” The group appealed to the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) present the best candidate for the 2023 Presidency, stressing that “Emefiele is the best because he has demonstrated competence and capacity that qualifies him to be the President of Nigeria. Although the CBN governor has not openly declared interest to contest the 2023 presidential election, several groups have in the past few weeks, been clamouring for his declaration of interest in the race, saying the country was at a point technocrats needed to take over the reins of power and steer it out of its present predicament.