•Keeps mum on zoning of party offices •Lukman: Buni, Bello, Uzodinma, two other govs frustrating convention •Says Akpanudoedehe active in ‘ponzi scheme’ Adedayo Akinwale in Abuja The All Progressives Congress (APC) has resolved to hold its national convention on March 26, a month away from the February 26 it initially proposed for the convention. This was contained in a leaked letter to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), referenced APC/NHDQ/INEC/019/22/21, which the ruling party said superseded its earlier national convention notice. The latest notice also replaced an earlier letter to INEC informing it of APC’s decision to hold its zonal congresses on March 26. But the party was silent on the zoning of offices, a major concern for stakeholders, which was believed to have contributed to the seeming dithering over the convention. A former Director General of Progressive Governors’ Forum (PGF), Dr. Salihu Lukman, alleged that the chairman of APC’s Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) and Governor of Yobe State, Mai Mala Buni; his Kogi State counterpart, Yahaya Bello; Governor of Imo State Hope Uzodinma; and Governor Dapo Abiodun of Ogun State were the ones frustrating the national convention plan. APC had in an earlier letter, with reference number APC/NHDQ/INEC/019/22/14, notified INEC of its decision to hold its national convention on February 26. But the party said its latest notice followed an evaluation of its constitution. It stated in the leaked letter, “In furtherance to Article 85 of the Electoral Act, 2010 (as amended) and compliance with Section 12:6 of our party constitution, we hereby write to notify the commission that our great party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), has scheduled to hold its zonal congresses on Saturday, 26th March, 2022. “Kindly arrange for your officials to monitor the exercise accordingly. While hoping to receive your cooperation, please accept the assurances of our highest esteem.” National Secretary of APC, Senator John Akpanudoedehe, told journalists yesterday at the national secretariat of the party in Abuja that the publication of national convention sub-committees would take on Monday, February 28. Akpanudoedehe, who spoke at the end of a four-hour meeting of the caretaker committee, said, “We have agreed and approved that activities for the party’s national convention will commence from February 24 and terminate on March 26 at Eagle Square with the national convention. In between the convention, we have agreed to have zonal congresses, and all the activities are hereby given as approved by the CECPC.” The schedule of activities released by the party showed that the sale of forms would take place between March 9 and 11, while the screening of aspirants would happen between March 15 and 17. The screening appeal would hold on March 19, while the adoption of the appeal report would be held on Monday, March 21, according to the schedule. The party said accreditation for the national convention would be held between March 24 and 25, while the convention would be on Saturday, March 26, and convention appeal would take place on Tuesday, March 29. The adoption of appeal report would take place on Wednesday, March 30, while the inauguration of the party executive would hold on Thursday, March 31. According to the schedule of activities for the zonal congresses, the publication of zonal committees would take place on February 24, while a meeting of zonal stakeholders is scheduled for February 26. The party added that the sale of forms for zonal positions would commence on February 28 and end on March 3. It scheduled the screening of zonal aspirants for March 5, and screening appeal for March 6. The adoption of the screening report is slated for March 8, while zonal congresses would be held on Saturday, March 12, and the zonal congresses appeal would take place on March 14. The adoption of appeal report is scheduled for March 16. However, Lukman, in a statement yesterday, titled, “APC Convention: Mutiny by Yahoo Yahoo Politicians,” alleged that the party was held captive by a small group of dishonest politicians whose only interest was to impose themselves as either presidential or vice-presidential candidates for the 2023 elections. The former APC governors’ forum director-general said the caretaker committee saddled mainly with the responsibility of organising the national convention to elect new leaders of the party had reduced the majority of its members to mere observers. He said even PGF was being disrespected, as the decisions and leadership of the governor’s body were being snubbed. Lukman said in the statement, “His Excellency Mai Mala Buni, in flagrant disregard to every known procedure of managing affairs of the party, relate only with His Excellency, Yahaya Bello of Kogi State; His Excellency, Hope Uzodinma of Imo State; and His Excellency, Dapo Abiodun of Ogun State, based on the plot to retain His Excellency, Mai Mala Buni as Chairman of the party up to the time of conducting the primary that will produce candidates for 2023 elections. “The other person, who is also active in this political ponzi scheme, is the CECPC Secretary, Senator John James Akpanudoedehe, who is also aspiring to emerge as the Akwa Ibom governorship candidate of the APC for 2023 elections.” Lukman alleged that Abiodun, Buni, Bello, and Uzodinma were all aspiring to become either presidential or vice-presidential candidates. He added, “Although His Excellency Mai Mala Buni is not open about his ambition, some of the speculation promoted by people very close to him is that once he is the one to organise the primary to produce candidates for 2023 elections, he stands a good chance to emerge as the vice-presidential candidate, or even the presidential candidate, if the North is to produce the presidential candidate.” In the case of Uzodinma, Lukman claimed the governor was alleged to be aspiring to emerge as vice-presidential candidate to a northern candidate, saying Bello has declared his aspiration to emerge as the 2023 presidential candidate of the party. He explained that Abiodun was being guaranteed a second term ticket to emerge the Ogun State governorship candidate for the 2023 election, which was to block any potential contestant, given the strong opposition he faced from former Governor Ibikunle Amosun in 2019. Lukman stressed that beyond guaranteeing Abiodun second term ticket, Buni had attempted to make similar offers to all first term governors of APC, adding that some of the stories flying around are true scripts being acted by Buni and his associates. He stated, “It is clear that Mai Mala Buni is opposed to organising the APC national convention on February 26, 2022 or any time soon. Consequently, he is working with other dishonest leaders, notably, Yahaya Bello, Hope Uzodinma, Dapo Abiodun, and a few others. “It is a mutiny against the authority of the party and all its designated leaders, especially, President Buhari, being carried by very dishonest people, who can best be described as Yahoo Yahoo politicians. They are busy recruiting more dishonest and questionable leaders, such as Uzor Kalu, and they are moving to recruit some state party leaders into their fold. “As a party, APC is now in a state of emergency. Any slip will destroy the party. This is not the period to allow dishonest political leaders gamble with the survival of the party and by extension weaken the nation’s democracy. Everything must be done to restore some minimum standards of conducts by leaders at all levels. “Everything must be done to rescue APC from the hands of these Yahoo Yahoo politicians represented by Mai Mala Buni, Yahaya Bello, Hope Uzodinma, Dapo Abiodun, Uzor Kalu, and their associates.” Reacting to the developments, a chairmanship aspirant of the party, Mr. Sunny Monidafe, said he had no choice but to accept the decision of the party. Monidafe said, “So long as the party leadership carries all the critical stakeholders along, I don’t have any objections.” But a group in the party, APC Rebirth group, faulted the decision to conduct the zonal congresses, saying it is alien to the party’s constitution. The group, led Aliyu Audu, said the decision was part of a calculated attempt by the Buni-led caretaker committee to elongate its tenure in office, adding, “It is a clear case of abuse of power and blatant reign of impunity. Buni will stop at nothing until he ruins the party.” Convention: We’re Not Talking Till After Meeting With Buhari, Say APC Governors The Progressives Governors Forum (PGF), has said that it would not comment on the timetable for the national convention and zonal congresses released by the Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) until it had met with President Muhammadu Buhari today. Chairman of the Forum and the Governor of Kebbi State, Atiku Bagudu, stated this while addressing journalists yesterday in Abuja. “Until we finish with Mr. President, we would rather not comment on any time table or any logistics,” said Bagudu, when asked about the time-table for the convention and zonal congresses. According to him, the Forum met to discuss developments in the states and review the election that took place in the FCT, Osun primary, the court judgment that dissolved the Kano Congress and the preparation for the national convention, where it received briefing from the Caretaker Chairman, Mai Mala Buni. speaking on the allegation that the APC governors were the ones frustrating the convention from holding, the Kebbi governor said, “We appreciate that Nigerians are interested in what the APC is doing, because Nigerians gave us their mandate by electing us into offices and holding us to a high standard and we are very conscious of that. His words: “All the APC governors have met and as always, appreciated the need to work together with other stakeholders. We have always been humble to acknowledge that we are not only stakeholders of the party. To work with other stakeholders and to ensure we deliver transparent, honest national executives that will have the confidence of all party members.”