Bassey Inyang in Calabar A governorship aspirant of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Cross River State, Senator Gershom Bassey, has promised that he would establish a ” Cross River State Security Trust Fund”, if he is elected governor of the state in 2023. Bassey, who made the promise at the weekend when he gave hint on the contents of his blueprint for the state, said the policy was necessary because it would go a long way in tackling insecurity in the state. Bassey’s promise to secure the state is coming at a period when the travellers and maritime business activities in the waterways between Calabar-Oron have been imperilled by activities of kidnappers and pirates, and a general state of brigandage across the state. Bassey who represents Cross River South Senatorial District, and also doubles as the State’s National Assembly Caucus Chairman, said, a “State Security Trust Fund will adequately equip our security agencies and amplify their efforts, promote adequate investment in the security infrastructure, technology, equipment and training. Also provide an effective sharing formula of security votes…. “It is going to be zero tolerance policy on crime in the state and a significant crackdown on all the criminal activities that threaten the peace and security of the people, their property and effective governance.” Continuing, the governorship aspirant said, “We all know there have been serious security issues in our state over the past seven years therefore peace and security is crucial for our state moving forward. Security begins with the grassroots. We must involve and fund all aspects of the grassroots including traditional rulers and Institutions and whatever it takes to ensure there is a safe secure and peaceful environment in the entire state.” He said the state would also collaborate with the federal government, and advocate the proper demarcation of boundaries where community clashes persist, promising also to create active integration of grassroots involvement into the security architecture of the state. He said the security template which the current administration in the state headed by Governor Ben Ayade inherited from the administration of Governor Liyel Imoke, was abandoned hence the prevalence of insecurity in the state. He said having served as Chairman of the Strategic Policy Advisory Committee for Liyel Imoke, security in this state was okay. “The way they handled security in this state was a very simple template, and it worked. Was there kidnapping under Donald and Liyel? The thing worked. But you have a governor that has come in, and taken a simple template and complicated it…. they (Ayade’s administration) have taken a very simple template, and complicated it. And here we have problems today. Using my house as an example, I am a victim. I was a victim of EndSARS. Why would EndSARS even happen in Calabar? If you were following the security template, that would not have happened,” Bassey said.