Bennett Oghifo The Vice Chancellor, University of Lagos, Professor Oluwatoyin Ogundipe has charged students to learn and understand the processes of manufacturing products with the use of glass, a very malleable material. Prof. Ogundipe gave the advice at the university, during an awareness symposium, one of the activities slated to mark the declaration of 2022 as The Year of Glass by the United Nations. Glass has been identified as a resource efficient material. It is a sustainable, fully recyclable material, which can be recycled in close loop over and over again. It may define the truly circular product, according to the UN. Glass is also highly appreciated in many applications for its inert nature and its contributions to safeguarding people’s health and wellbeing. It provides great environmental benefits such as contributing to mitigating climate change and saving precious natural resources. According to Ogundipe, “The future of glass could translate into unlimited opportunities. So for our students, this is a very good opportunity for you to start thinking about what you can produce in this country in the next 10 to 30 years. With new ideas there are new opportunities. We are bringing innovation and so many other things. So let our students look to glass, like the things we are seeing here (glass products on display at the symposium) are works of art that someone developed, if we ask how much these cost it would be so much that it would be out of reach of some people.” On the planned collaboration of Arcline Beehive Design Foundation (ABDF) with the university on the use of glass, Ogundipe said, “I want us to know that this is a very good opportunity for the university and we must not allow it to slip away from us. “I like grabbing opportunities…I want us to grab this opportunity, so that the foundation interested in funding the projects will not regret bringing it to the University of Lagos. “The University is ready to do everything that is needed to implement the projects and we are ready to give all the necessary assistance needed for us to be sure that we use this opportunity to the benefit of the nation. Because, If you go to China and all other places around the world you can see what they do with glass. You will not believe that what we are made to believe is very weak; they are using it to perform wonders.” According to the Chairman, Board of Trustees Arcline Beehive Design Foundation, Mr. Adeolu Okulaja, “The United Nations has declared 2022 the International Year of Glass. We have organised a series of events in conjunction with the United Nations Information Center Lagos, the University of Lagos and the Lagos State Ministry of Environment and Water Resources.” The group’s recent kickoff event called ‘A Walk for Glass’, other scheduled events are to be done in conjunction with the fashion industry, food industry and the arts. “I would like everyone to join us in this one in a lifetime celebration. And I hope that we can all benefit from the events for a more sustainable future.” He said other events scheduled for the celebration are: UN 2022 IYOG information booth at NUGA games at UNILAG sports center (awareness campaign) in March; National glass day seminar on recycling and advancement in glass technology for businesses and professionals on April 28, 2022; Glassunlimited workshop on glass-bim innovation and design on June 29, 2022, among others.