Okon Bassey in Uyo A section of the statutory delegates comprising ward, chapter officers and former elected officers of the People Democratic Party (PDP) in Akwa Ibom State has publicly endorsed the member representing Etinan Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives, Hon Onofiok Luke, for the 2023 governorship race in the state. The select delegates of the party came on the platform of ‘Great Supporters of Onofiok Luke’ to declare loyalty to their preferred governorship aspirant. The party members numbering more than 250 said they had resolved to support Luke for the governorship in 2023 irrespective of the antics of the state government to unprecedentedly endorse one aspirant. A spokesman for the group, Mr. Abraham Joshua Udoekong, said they had seen in Luke, the capacity, character, love for the people, ideas and passion to drive economic and social development of the state. This, they said informed the decision to come forward and endorse publicly Luke, a former speaker of the state House of Assembly, for the general good of the people. Udoekong said they gave themselves a mandate to scout for and mobilise committed delegates that would vote for Luke to emerge at the party primary. “We are taking this bold step for the general good of our state. We started mobilising ourselves for the Onofiok Luke’s governorship project in 2020; today we have mobilised delegates to come here and endorse him. We believe in him, and we will vote for him.” He maintained that they were not disturbed by recent political happenings in the state, insisting that their resolution to support Luke at the party primary was absolute. Receiving the PDP delegates on behalf of Luke and the Amazing Grace Campaign Organisation, Mr Imo Udo, lauded them for the bold action they had taken. “I thank you for adopting Luke as your sole candidate for the governorship in 2023. Luke is a man associated with good works, and I believe that that is why you want him to be the governor of Akwa Ibom State,” he said.