HighLife Great things are happening in Lagos. Wura Adepoju, the designer with an inborn endowment for needles and fabrics and style, has decided to stretch the baton of fashion greatness to Lagosians. From the information making the rounds on social media, come March 1, 2022, Adepoju and her team will open up a fashion academy in another part of Lagos to teach interested individuals the basics and the best. Clear your calendars for the arrival of the third Lagos branch of Adepoju’s Vigold Fashion Academy. Similar to the other two, the new academy and showroom (which will be opened on the first day of March) will usher fashion designer trainees and enthusiasts into the colourful world of fabrics and fads. Beyond the fashion-designer-academy norm, Adepoju also intends to empower her students to plug the gap of unemployment in Nigeria. This is not the first time that Vigold is throwing open its doors and handing out serendipities. Since the fashion institute took an interest in the education of young men and women, it has been one big win after another. The establishment has managed to train several thousands of fashion designers, most of whom are proudly extending the same opportunities around urban and rural areas in Nigeria. Score one for providing employment and encouraging entrepreneurship! Fashion design continues to top listicles of the most lucrative occupations in the world. Thanks to moneybags in the trade like Amancio Ortega and Bernard Arnault, even people with the most determined minds are crowding the industry. Nevertheless, there are a few, like Adepoju, who are there for the job of it all. And that is one of what her establishment, Vigold School of Fashion and Creative Arts Academy, represents. Among the options for Adepoju’s brainchild are basics like Pattern Drafting and Clothing Construction, as well as the more advanced Fashion Illustration, Fashion marketing, and Customer Service in the industry. Intending fashion designers can only wait their turn as Adepoju takes Lagos by storm.