Television host and executive producer, Vimbai Mutinhiri-Ekpenyong, will headline the Women’s Pavillion at the 10X Thrive Global Conference, and she will join founder of LagosMums, Yetty Williams, for a keynote chat as well as take part in a non-structured women’s only conversation. According to that organisers of the event, the pavilion will explore avenues for women’s success in the workplace and their personal lives. The 10X Thrive Conference is a free global event billed to hold online on February 10 and 11, 2022. The Women’s Pavillion will also feature a second keynote chat with Indian finance and tech expert, Chief Executive Officer of The Fin Lit Project, Neha Misra, on ‘Women Wealth and Wellness being’. There will be a fireside chat where HerVest CEO, Solape Akinpelu, and certified coach and founder of The Worthy Woman Club, Abi Longe, will join the founder of Her Network, Nkem Onwudiwe, in a conversation on ‘our financial freedom’. The organiser said it’s looking like a busy year for Vimbai who just returned from maternity leave after having her daughter. She’s back to work with a new show ‘The A-List with Vimbai’ on Zimbabwean entertainment radio, ZiFM Stereo; and a new weekly column on BusinessDay’s weekly supplement, The Weekender. “I’ve come to realize that women from all walks of life have so many shared experiences, but there is an information vacuum typically because the culture of silence is still dominant in most circles. I am excited about any opportunity to lift the veil and collaborate to discuss and troubleshoot the challenges we encounter in our journeys as women” said Vimbai. Also Longe has assured attendees of getting great value, adding that: “They are going to get practical tips on how to strategise and shape the financial future they desire, even as they work towards achieving true financial freedom.” The two-day global conference will bring together over 40 world class speakers who are professionals in business, technology, HR, finance and much more to delve into topics that include thriving in these times, building influence, raising funding, and a sweeping guide to the new world of work. According to the conveners of rhe conference, Omawumi Ogbe and Rachel Onamusi, the 10X Thrive Conference is a “non-PowerPoint and boring speech zone featuring practical conversations and tips that participants can action immediately for measured change in life and career.” The conference is open to new graduates, entry-level and C-Suite career professionals, small and medium-scale entrepreneurs and leaders from all parts of the world. Registration for the conference is free at bit.ly/10xthrive Other speakers billed for the 10X Thrive conference include Africa’s premier life coach