Mary Nnah No fewer than 24 schools will be competing in the inaugural International School Sports competition organised by the Sports Business Network (SBN) in collaboration with Lagos State Athletics Association. Scheduled to take place between March 14th and 19th in Lagos, the Director of the competition and Olympic medalist, Enefiok Udo-Ubong, said the platform will provide an opportunity for young talented Nigerians to be discovered and nurtured by clubs and universities. He said further that, registration for private schools is N100, 000, primary schools N50, 000 and individual athletes N10, 000. The event is open to students of between six and 17 years and the person must be in school because it is a school competition. Besides winning the Deji Tinubu trophy, the overall school in the SBN International Athletics Championship will get some development programmes and prize money not less than N5 million. The winning school will also get international recognition, instant scholarships, sports career management amongst others. Sponsored by Mango Net, the competition which is meant to give school children a platform to build their athletics career, Udo-Obong stressed, is also to enable young athletes, particularly, those in private schools, to compete and feel the experience their counterparts in other countries enjoy. He confirmed that the track and field competition for students of between six and 17 years has attracted schools from two neighbouring West African countries like Ghana and Togo, as well as private schools in Lagos, Abia, Akwa Ibom, Rivers, and Niger states. The young athletes would come together to showcase their God-given talents and compete so they could be discovered Udo-Ubong, Vice President of the Lagos State Athletics Association, who expressed confidence that the event will be a success, added that it would help young people with a platform to reach their potential. Udo-Obong, the only Nigerian to win two Olympic medals, gold at Sydney 2000 Olympics and a bronze at Athens 2004, revealed further that the aim is to organise a competition that is close to Olympics standard. Chairman of Lagos State Athletics Association and Vice President of the Athletics Federation of Nigeria (AFN), Dr. Solomon Alao said the competition is being organised in accordance with the Lagos State government’s public-private partnership policy, adding, “We are partnering the private sector to carry out what we believe will be the largest gathering of schools.” “In Lagos State, we build stars for the future and give them hope. Together, we can build a solid foundation for Nigerian athletes,” he noted.