Adibe Emenyonu in Benin-city The President and Archbishop of the Church of God Mission, Margaret Benson-Idahosa, yesterday inaugurated the All Nations for Christ Bible International Institute Alumni Association (ANFCBIIAA), with a charge on them to go forth and raise men and women to propagate Christ to all nationals of the world. The alumni association is made up of graduates of the All Nations For Christ Bible International Institute founded by the late Archbishop Benson Idahosa in 1968 groom evangelists. Inaugurating the association at the Church of God Mission International headquarters (Faith Arena) in Benin-city, Edo State, Archbishop Idahosa said the aim of the exercise was to validate the mandate of the alumni association to carry its mandate of spreading the word of God. She said: “Today, God is telling me to tell you that you are not strangers to Him. Anywhere you go, they know you because you speak like your father; from your root. Once you open your mouth, people will know you are miracle workers. “Please as you go forth; begin to raise men and women that will carry out this work. You are this fire brand that cannot be quenched. I thanked all of you who have worked for the All Nations for Christ Bible International Institute. “There’s anointing is upon your lives. The anointing should not be stagnant but a movement to raise men and women for signs and wonders. So as you go, let the fire increase in your lives and on your pulpits.” At a press conference organised by members of the ANFCBIIAA, Vice Chairman/acting Chairman of the body, Bishop Robertson Akwazi, said the purpose of establishing the alumni association was to proof that the late Idahosa still lives, and that they are one of those who are privileged to be students or former students of the bible institute he established. According to him, :That is why we asked Mama Idahosa to validate the bible institute alumni association to give it more authority, as some and daughters of the late Archbishop Benson Idahosa have globally gathered as alumni. “The inauguration is to receive the mandate on what to do to ensure the legacy of our father is maintained and come out with a programme that will impact on everyone.” Also in their remarks, member of Board of Trustee (BoT) of ANFCBIIAA, Apostle Joshua Olaoye; Provost of the institute, Dr. Usman Habeeb; and Head, Ghana chapter of the bible institute, Bishop Alex Kwame Nkrumah, noted that ANFCBIIAA has over 15,000 graduates spread across the world.