Omolabake Fasogbon A non- profit organisation, Teach For Nigeria (TFN) has reaffirmed its commitment to improving foundational learning outcomes and life opportunities for low-income children in the country. The organisation gave the assurance during a virtual press conference held to commemorate its fifth anniversary. At the well-attended event, the organisation also announced the opening of portal for application into its two years fellowship programme, targeting young change-makers. TFN, which was launched in 2017, has been working in tandem with government, private sector, development partners and young Nigerians to close the foundational learning gaps for children in underserved schools across the country. Accordance to the organisation, the fellowship programme was towards the fulfilment of its agenda to tackle Nigeria’s foundational learning challenge in underserved primary schools. Recounting the successes of the organisation in five years, Co-Founder and Board Member of TFN, Alero Ayida-Otobo stated that the organisation had made significant changes and improvements that have not only impacted the sector but improved the future outcomes for children. She said, “TFN was conceptualised in 2014 at the 20th Nigerian Economic Summit (NES) in a bid to transform the nation’s education sector given the problems faced by the sector at the time. It is a model and prototype of what is possible in the educational space in Nigeria and will continue to raise an army of leaders that understand the educational problems, design the solutions and impact children in their classrooms and beyond.” In her opening remark, Chief Executive Officer of the organisation, Folawe Omikunle restated the vision of the organisation to ensure that every child had access to quality and excellent education. She said, “We remain committed to recruiting cohorts of promising leaders to provide extensive support and teach in communities that are experiencing economic and social injustice. “Our solutions are bold and by 2031 we would have built a network of over 20,000 leaders across all geopolitical zones in Nigeria working in deep partnership with local communities to impact over a million students each year.” On his part, the Chairman of TFN, Gbenga Oyebode stated that TFN was committed to addressing complex issues of inequities in education, adding that it will continue to deliver solutions to catalyze transformational change for Nigerian children.