Member of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Hon. Rotimi Abiru shares his views on state police and the worsening security situation in the country with Segun James State police has been a thorny issue in the country, what is the position of the LAHA on the issue? This is one thing that we have been clamouring for before the insurgency started. We have been to other countries, and we know how security is considered very important over there. And beyond state police, there is also community policing. The people can police their state better because they understand as well as have better knowledge to police their community than anyone the Nigerian Police may deploy to maintain law and order within the community. Some of these officers do not understand the community where they are posted. Although they will claim to be professionals unlike when you have people that live within. The community police can easily identify visitors and nip in the bud any plan that could result in a crisis. Nothing can be better than the federal government granting the state the full autonomy to set them up. Even in some states, they have had reasons to set up internal mechanisms to boost security within their state. In some parts of the country, we have Ebube Agwu in the East, the South-west has Amotekun while Lagos has the Neighbourhood Watch and others. And it has indeed helped to protect lives and property. What is your view on the claims that some states may not be able to fully fund the operation of such a state police and that some governors may use it to oppress their opponents? Irrespective of any teething problems in individual states. I believe that the governors will not be there forever. They will serve their tenure and move on. We cannot start complaining now when we have not tried it. Right now, some states are empowering vigilante groups and paramilitary groups. And since then, these local security groups have complemented the role of the federal security agencies. I am not sure that the Nigerian Police have enough men to police the country. Yes, I agree that the concerns are genuine but again I do not think that should be sufficient to stop the establishment of state police. More states have realized that it is the best solution to improve security within their state and that will also give the governors the sense of responsibility to know that the security of the state lies with them. This will change the current narrative because now when they give out instructions to the police and the IGP gives counter instruction, the law enforcement officer will do what the IGP says. But you need to understand that Lagos State Government has often been supporting the police and other law enforcement agents across the state through the State’s Security Trust Fund with arms and ammunition as well as boosting their morale. In spite of that, none of the law enforcement agencies or any individual can say that the government has used the agencies against them. I think it is better for all of us to think through it and understand that it is a necessity that must be done to protect lives and property across the country. Thank God there is peace in Lagos, and this is because we have not rested on our achievements over the years. And during our engagement with the Commissioner of Police, he indeed disclosed that the state recorded about four cases of kidnapping, and the way they dealt with the supposed perpetrators has sent warning signals to others that they will not find it easy here. We understand that no one can compel the other person not to commit a crime; it is left for the law enforcement officers to be active and nip such in the bud. I am sure that anyone living in Lagos can attest to the improvement in security and I believe that it should be sustained. Setting up a state police for Lagos, will that not affect the state’s fund considering the number of policemen that will be required to man every part of the state? I do not believe that there is much more to spend on the issue of policing Lagos state even if we take responsibility. I have an idea of how much the state spends on law enforcement. We give glory to God for the establishment of the Lagos State Security Trust Fund (LSSTF). The funds provided by the LSSTF were not totally from the government. They are funds from both the government and the private sector because they all know that business can only thrive in a peaceful environment. They support the funds, and they all see what the funds is used for. Security cannot be left for the government alone; it is what everyone needs to get involved in. We need to understand that the LSSTF does not draw a budget from the government. Although the state has a way that it supports it but it is not solely run on governments fund. The LSSTF annual account rendering has earned the trust of everyone that contributes into it. With the funding of the law enforcement agency, hardly will there be bank robbery within the state and its security network would not catch up with them. The criminals too, they will prefer to operate in areas where they can have an easy ride. Right now, the waterways are secured, so I can reason that these criminals are thinking about going outside Lagos for their nefarious activities. Recently, oil has been discovered in the state, has there been any discussion on the need to include Lagos among the oil producing states? No doubt, I think that status has since been achieved. I want to believe that the state has started realizing income from that although it may not be so much for now. It is been trapped. I think that we have been recognized as such, but I cannot say for a fact how much the state has realized from the sector. I think that has been done with some private firm. I believe that it would soon add up to the revenue of the state. What is the update on the controversial VAT collection issue between the state and the federal government? I think there is an inter-ministerial committee that is looking into that collection. It was not that the state just woke up and demanded that it wants to start collecting VAT. It was based the ruling of a court of competent jurisdiction to the effect that states have the power do that. Of course, the state is a sub-national of the Nigerian nation and it is the responsibility of us all to act within the ambit of the law, which is the 1999 constitution. The VAT was not mentioned in the constitution. There is more engagement ongoing to address the issues that surround that. VAT is like consumption tax; it is charge on goods and does not affect the ordinary man on the street. It is meant for companies that operate within the confines of a particular state and we should not forget that the effect of the company’s activities is borne by the state where it is sited. So, why should the FG be the one to collect the VAT? The issue of Stamp Duty is also involved. Again, talks are ongoing with the FG to ensure that the state gets the maximum support in that regard. You will agree with me that the bulk of the revenue comes from Lagos State, and it is not too much for the FG to consider us as a special entity because this is about resource control. Lagos is a state surrounded by water and this is like a resource to us. So, activities therefore, increase human activities and those human activities have its own effect both on the lives and the environment of Lagos, particularly the pollution from trucks and others. This is not quantifiable. Of course, it creates a challenge for the government because the government will not allow its residents to inhale all the emission from the activities. The state on its own, through LASEPA is working effectively to ensure that the air quality is good and ensure some great level of compliance among those generating these activities in the state. It is for the federal government to support the state that has the capacity to collect the revenue because the state will be able to collect more than what the federal government is generating for the country. We are here, it is our base, we have all the resources to do that. But we cannot be seen as struggling with the FG because governance is about people. And I pray that at the end of the day it will be resolved in the favour of the state, so that the state can have more money to develop its infrastructure and care for the peoples’ need without depending on the apex government for assistance. What has happened to the plan between Lagos and Ogun states on border towns development and assistance? It is strategic for both states to focus on their border communities. What happens now is that most people live in Ogun and work in Lagos. Aside that, they pay their taxes in Ogun after getting their resources from Lagos. The centre of excellence is a viable state. It is also strategic for the Ogun state government to ensure that people on that corridor can also get the dividend of democracy. And they have started making these border communities attractive so that they can get people that do not have the resources to live in Lagos but working within the state, to live in Ogun. There is nothing wrong with that but to my knowledge, I am not sure if work has been done on that, but I have heard about that before. This is to ensure that both states do not short-change each other. I believe it is one thing that both states should investigate and strategise on what to do in order to maintain the relationship. Politics has commenced in earnest, what should Lagosians expect from the APC-led government in the state? Residents of Lagos State should be expect good governance, better law and order. They should understand that if Lagos is a country, I am sure we will be a country to reckoned with globally. And even despite its status as a state in Nigeria, Lagos remains the destination for many that are coming into the country. In all, Lagosians should expect good tidings from the government while the government will be asking for maximum cooperation from the citizens particularly not contravening the laws including the traffic law; because one thing we experienced during 2021 was outright disregard for traffic law and that compounded gridlock across the state. It is one thing to make laws and it is another issue with compliance. I agree that the government may not have the full manpower to enforce laws, but when the citizens comply, the society will be better. Also, the citizens should respect the law enforcement officers because within last year, we witnessed cases of harassment of law enforcement officers across the state particularly military officers that were found to have flouted the law. The government is about all of us and the way we all play our roles determines the success of the state.