The National Executive Committee (NEC) of the University of Ilorin Alumni Association, has warned a faction of the alumni, led by Prof. D.O. Durosaro from proceeding with a planned meeting of the association slated for February 19, 2022. The NEC in a statement advised the faction to comply with a court order restraining them from going ahead with the meeting scheduled to hold at Savannah Hotel ( along Ajase Ipo road) Ilorin. The statement signed by the National Publicity Secretary
University of Ilorin Alumni Association, Yeye Bolanle Olatunde, also called on “all the statutory members of the National Executive Council to stay away from the unconstitutional meeting.” The statement accused a chapter of the association of “working round the clock to abruptly truncate the tenure of the Executive Committee and install their cronies through unconstitutional means.” The current Executive led by Dr. S.O Fasakin was elected on March 7, 2020. However, Durosaro and some past presidents of the association comprising Mr. J.J. Olorunfemi, Mr. Abdul Fatai Bello, Prof. Is-haq Oloyede, and Prof A.Y. Abdulkareem . Prof Jeleel O. Ojuade are being accused of planning an illegal and unconstitutional National Executive Council meeting for February 19, 2022. The statement noted that in order to stop the faction from convening the planned illegal and unconstitutional National Executive Council meeting, “we, the members of the National Executive Committee have approached the High Court of Kwara State vide Originating Summons in suit No:KWS/66/2022 between Dr. Stephen Fasakin & 6 Ors v. Prof. D. O. Durosaro & 4 Ors. “We also filed Ex parte application and motion on notice seeking for Court’s order restraining the respondents from convening the National Executive Council meeting scheduled to hold on February 19, 2022”, the statement read in part. Olatunde argued that since court papers had been served on some of the parties including Durosaro, he believes that “Prof. Durosaro will not proceed with the illegal Council meeting except he has no respect for the rule of law having been served with the processes”. The NEC therefore urged all the “statutory members of the National Executive Council to stay away from the unconstitutional meeting.” Adding that: “While we are determined to follow the rules of law, we want to implore the law enforcement agencies to prevent breakdown of law and order and illegal meeting scheduled to hold on the February 19, 2022 at Savannah Hotel, Ilorin as we are unfazed to guide and protect the provisions of our constitution with anything legally possible.”