Golden Penny celebrates the festive season with the “12 Days of Christmas” social media and radio campaign on the 13th to 24th of December, 2021. It is an entertaining and engaging campaign as it rewarded millions of Nigerians across the country. In many parts of the world, the Christmas season is to foster love, happiness, unwind and enjoy family time with our loved ones. The Golden penny radio and social media ‘12 Days of Christmas’ campaign was activated to make millions of Nigerians happy with various gifts ranging from shopping vouchers, gift cards to lots of Golden Penny products. Speaking about the brand’s commitment to Nigerians, the Category Manager, Foluke Makinde said, “The campaign themed ‘A season of togetherness’ aired on various stations across the country. ” Thousands of callers and winners of the gift vouchers and food items from Golden Penny for the 12 days duration were very pleased as it was such a perfect way to embrace the joy, celebration, and happiness of the season.” The online version of the “12 Days of Christmas” campaign had various tasks which served as a rewarding form of edutainment for its online audience – entertaining them while educating them about the values, nutritional benefits and the array of products offered by the brand. One of the most intriguing of them all was the first day’s challenge. It involved showing an act of kindness to people; members of the brand’s online audience were required to make a video gifting a loved one Golden Penny Products whilst stating how deserving their recipients are. It stood out as it is of course a vital need in our society and not only did it reward several participants but also instilled the Christmas spirit of sharing in its online audience. The Christmas campaign which involved a series of quizzes, tasks, and asks wrapped up on the 12th day on Radio and online. The online audience were asked to spot the three Flavors; Pepper soup, Jollof and Chicken which were cleverly hidden in an image uploaded. Winners were rewarded with amazing prizes such as shopping vouchers and the sought-after Golden Penny Bumper Packs. This campaign was aimed at strengthening the bond between the brand and its customers by thrilling them with fun, excitement, opportunities and rewards. It was a huge success as the brand gained more followers across its digital platforms, higher engagement levels and a myriad of appreciation from millions of happy and satisfied Nigerians. Golden Penny is one of the largest food brands in Nigeria, offering great tasting and nutritious products at affordable prices. Its products are made from some of the finest raw materials and remain the preferred choice amongst consumers and industrial users like bakeries and confectioners.