Adedayo Akinwale in Abuja Ahead of the 2023 elections, a support group, Youth for Tinubu Initiative (YTI) has assured stakeholders that the former Governo r of Lagos state and an All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential aspirant, Senator Bola Tinubu, will not leave the ruling party for any aspirant. YTI’s National Coordinator, Mr. Ajibola Afolayan, stated this while addressing a press conference yesterday in Abuja, saying the group was convinced that Tinubu’s network across the geo-political zones would deliver him the presidential ticket of APC. Against this background, the group has ordered its members across the 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) to commence campaign massive mobilisation in support of Tinubu’s presidential ambition. It also urged its members to begin senistatisation and awareness campaign for Permanent Voter Card registeration. The group also called on all the aggrieved members of APC to sheath their swords because of the masses oriented presidential candidate that is coming out. Afolayan said: “Bola Ahmed Tinubu was one of the founders of the APC. In fact, his resilience despite all odds ensured the success of the merger of the defunct parties that we now call Legacy Parties. “We are convinced that his network across the geo-political zones would deliver the presidential ticket of APC for him. He has laboured to build APC, the issue of abandoning the platform that he built doesn’t arise. He will get the APC ticket.” The group scored Tinubu 70 per cent based on his achievements as the Governor of Lagos state. It added: “Although, it might be difficult but based on our progressive ideology, we must not allow our selfish interest to override the masses collective interest.” Based on all these discoveries and assessments, as Youth Entrepreneurs/Politician across all the 36 states and 774 local governments in Nigeria who want the best for this country, we therefore, officially declare Asiwaju Bola Tinubu as our presidential candidate come 2023. “Similarly, we are ordering all our members who are across the nukes and crannies of Nigeria to start full mobilization, awareness and PVC’s campaign registration with immediate effect.” “As a group, YTI can continue to mention his enormous achievements that we discovered. These achievements are not saying he is a saint or he is not in flesh but if a student gets 70%, it’s more than a pass mark, it is called a distinction.”