Nseobong Okon-Ekong holds a conversation with media entrepreneur and an event-profiled global enterprise communicator, Mrs. Dayo Benjamins-Laniyi, the executive director of Doxa Group- (Doxa Digital Nig., Doxa Conference Management Bureau, Doxa Prints & DBL/Doxa; Nigeria’s foremost complete corporate brand that is tested and proven in the market place providing total event design, management and sequencing, conference hall design, configuration and installations of technical and innovative enterprise for prestigious occasions and ceremonials of various government, social, diplomatic and corporate reference; both national and international. She is an ordained deaconess and the wife of Pastor Tunde Benjamins-Laniyi of the Throneroom RCCG Abuja that meets at Transcorp Hilton. An English [Honors] graduate of the University of Ibadan, Dayo is a public speaking entity and an experiential consultant who has honed a reputation as one of Nigeria’s most recognized and sought-after Master of Ceremony (MC), with a stellar background spanning media, entertainment, events design and architecture, hospitality, culture/tourism and CEO branding. DBL celebrity compere has planned and masterfully executed a significant number of high-profile events, both locally and internationally. DBL is Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Management Consultants and Certified Management Consultant. She is so inspired by nature and environment around her that she develops personal relationship with her plants; and they are named deliberately according to their place in her heart. The African Culture Transformation (ACT) Initiative is an NGO/Cultural rejuvenation engine, which she has initiated to restore, strengthen and redefine African pedigree for women advocacy and entrepreneurship. Dayo is also working on an Agro-Transformation project for African Women. This project is primarily concerned with the integration of African women as global ‘Agro-preneurs’. She is a relationship and entrepreneurship mentor/counselor to youth and women of all ages, and the host of a popularly known TV series with Christian Broadcasting Network (CBN) called Ask Aunty D on Living The Life Series. She is the CEO of the annual DBL Bold & Beautiful that celebrates women in commemoration of the International Women’s Day (IWD). The program is an intentional initiative that inspires a vibrant networking and mentorship platform for women across all ages, race, experiences, purpose and pursuits – using the power of personal stories. DreamGirlsAfrica (DBL-DGA) is the inspired initiative and African Girlchild advocacy of its founder and convener `Dayo Benjamins-Laniyi (DBL). It is dedicated to the global empowerment of the girl child in Africa, through a project-based appraisal of her academic, physical, psychological, and emotional vulnerabilities; using the founder’s home nation, Nigeria as it’s geopolitical Polaris. Through creativity and innovation, DBL DreamGirlsAfrica provides mentorship, guidance, support, global leadership and entrepreneurship skill sets which radically transform the emotional profile and mindset of the African girlchild and positioning her in strength and happiness for the future she truly deserves. Dayo is the brand ambassador for The Nigeria Social Media Summit and the Vice-Chair of the Nigeria-Trinidad & Tobago Chamber of Commerce, Abuja Nigeria. She is happily married with four children. Kwara State has taken the lead in women inclusion in governance by making a law that demands 35 percent gender inclusion in appointment to public offices, is this any comfort to women? Kudos to the Kwara state governor and his formidable team. Empowering women and promoting their political participation, especially at this time in Nigeria, is more than just a comfort, it is also a wise political decision. It will be difficult to erode this feat by another political party that comes into power. Beyond statistics and numbers, it is about people. It is about giving critical opportunities to a critical mass of people who make up a critical part of our economy, and of our future. Beyond comfort, it is a significant strike in the right direction for women and for all. What can be done to increase the percentage of women parliamentarians in the country? It is already happening. We just made reference to the success of the Kwara state example . Also, the APC Women conference, coordinated by caretaker Woman Leader Hon. Stella Okotete, had an incredible lineup of profile, with the Vice- President of Liberia as the Keynote Speaker, Dr. Jewel Taylor. The whole subject matter was women participation in politics. It had an impact on women from all spheres of political influence, appointment, and participation, as well as women from all spheres. In conclusion, the Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo encouraged women to go for 50% rather than just 35% . A charter of action for implementing the pivotal points discussed and the outcome of all the contributions made by wives of presidents, wives of governors, women in leadership positions, and women in grass roots communities. concluded the conference. It is going to be an intentional decision by the individual, the women themselves, to rise up and become not just a voice and a vote, but a valuable contributor to the political architecture of Nigeria’s elections and other political events. What life experiences have you had that have led you to seek representation of the FCT in the Senate so passionately? Rather than a vast array of experiences that have brought me to this place, it is really a realization (Eureka) for me. I’ve been in politics for so long, but I’ve never been a registered member of a political party. This is not a quantum experience but a quantum realization. My life in Abuja over the past 30 years has prepared me for this. I believe I was destined for this. I love Abuja. I have always viewed myself as the human City Gate of Abuja. My Abuja projects have always come from the heart of my desire to use the opportunities Abuja gave me to create opportunities for others in Abuja. Abuja is me and I am Abuja. In so many ways, Abuja has blessed me and this is my turn to be a blessing. My representation of Nigeria at global fronts such as Davos and the United Nations is a collateral dividend of being trained in Abuja. I want to become a visible voice for voices speaking. Violence Against Women (VAW) is very real. In politics, there’s Violence Against Women in Politics (VAWiP). In school, there is sexual harassment of female students at all levels – primary, secondary and tertiary. The Bill by Sen. Omo-Agege, Deputy Senate President, on sexual harassment in tertiary institutions is a welcome development. We note that the Gender Equality Bill has been rejected thrice! More Bills need to come on board for the protection of disadvantaged groups – women, children, PLWDs and the aged. What is in the heart of this quest, for you, as an individual? I believe I can do this and win. This is not a pursuit of personal ambition or for political appointment – there is no plan B. This is about a deliberate and intentional will to become an agent of change in my time and with my strong spirit of patriotism and love for my capital city #abujamyhappycity as well as to courageously ‘Fly the flag’ for my country; for Nigerian Youth and my gender-tribe of women as a mentor, a sister and a mother. I’m fully persuaded that it is time and it is me, “If not me, then who? And if not now then, when?” How will you gauge the efforts of this administration in having more female representation in government? This administration has done its bit but can still do more to validate its expression of something critical to scale up its commitment and political will and investment in this projection – it won’t just validate women, it will validate them; then the next administration must take over from where they have stopped as regards inclusion of women in government. As HE Aisha Buhari stated loud and clear at the recent hosting of the APC Women’s Congress in Abuja, “No more long talk!” As for us the women, we must not give up. Political participation is not just about politics and elections, it’s about purposefully defining the future of our dreams and our highest desires for generations beyond what our wombs will birth in our time. In Africa, generally, would you say the role and representation of women in politics ( other local and international) have evolved significantly? In Africa, Nigeria is lagging behind as regarding the empirical, numerical representation of women in politics (under 5%). There is a clear lacuna. This is a paradox of the Nigerian woman’s evident strength in numbers and impactful representations in international, institutional and corporate governance, from grassroots community mobilization to boardroom CEOship and global entrepreneurship. ‘Africa Barometer of women’s political participation’ in Africa says women constitute only 24% of the 12,113 parliamentarians in Africa. 25%in the lower houses and 20% in the upper houses. Among the top African countries with high percentage of women in ministerial positions are Rwanda (51.9%), South Africa (48.6%), Ethiopia (47.6%), Seychelles (45.5%), Uganda (36.7%) and Mali (34.4%). Clearly, Nigeria is significantly missing in the top league. In the Senate, I propose to forge critical in-house relationships and stimulate roundtable conversations that initiate Bills to remedy this and other anomaly. I note that countries that have achieved at least 30% benchmark appear to have adopted some form of affirmative action. For African example, Rwanda has a constitutional provision reserving 30% of seats for women in its bicameral legislature. Nigeria can and must #domore. What is your utmost concern about the Nigerian girl-child today? My utmost concern is that she may attain and live the life of her dreams. Beyond handouts of sanitary pads, it is my dream to see the African girl child empowered through technology and iPads! The mantra of my DBL dream girl advocacy project in order that she will express her five star potential is an acronym of the word D-R-E-A-M! D- Dare to Dream; R- Reach for the Stars; E- Excellence is a choice A- Aspire for Higher; M- More is who you are In all these my earnest prayer is that she will find a safe environment with which to complete (not compete) every of her aspirations. She must see herself as valuable over being vulnerable, a relevant team player who does not work by gender privilege alone, but through the power of her unique collateral, as well as the dynamics of her creative, distinctive DNA and leadership attributes. QUOTE This administration has done its bit but can still do more to validate its expression of something critical to scale up its commitment and political will and investment in this projection – it won’t just validate women, it will validate them; then the next administration must take over from where they have stopped as regards inclusion of women in government. As HE Aisha Buhari stated loud and clear at the recent hosting of the APC Women’s Congress in Abuja, “No more long talk!” As for us the women, we must not give up. Political participation is not just about politics and elections, it’s about purposefully defining the future of our dreams