Modern climes have seen the rise of technology become one of the strongest focal points of
global development. But this exponential development has proved to be pivotal in certain
regions, Africa topping this list as one of the recent major drivers for tech entrepreneurship. Even though the region experienced its first economic downturn in twenty-five years in 2020, the tech sector has powered through several barriers. Tech Times stated that three years ago, startup funding in Africa surpassed $1 billion for the first time, which increased to $1.3 billion in venture capital investments in 2020. These figures have inadvertently led to the rise of E-commerce, across a wide spectrum of
industries. The global e-commerce automotive market, according to a projection by Vaimo, is expected to reach $143.9 billion by 2028, undoubtedly putting e-commerce as a major positive disruptor of economies. Driven by wider mobility, the ever-changing demands of consumers, and the unprecedented effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, the use of online sales models for the automotive industry has become the new normal. Online inventory listings and easier access to purchase cars have provided consumers with more options, and an easier, stress-free process. Nowadays, consumers prefer buying their cars online, with consumer satisfaction reaching an all-time high of 72% in 2021, a significant increase from 60% in 2019, as per a report by Cox Automotive. In Nigeria, the automotive industry is rapidly adapting to the use of online platforms in the sale of automobiles. Leading this innovative approach is Carsplenty Nigeria, with its pioneer sales model that fully utilizes the advantages of digitization, and gives an insight into the future of Nigeria’s retail structure. Carsplenty is one of the leading auctioneers of quality, used cars, solely aimed at making the online purchase of cars seamless. The brand is dedicated to breaking through the traditional structure of offline dealerships in Nigeria, ushering in a new age of automotive retail. In that regard, they have successfully broken down geographic barriers, allowing the nationwide sale of cars via their mobile app thereby offering automotive products in different currencies, as well as location-specific payment options. Additionally, the brand’s e-commerce model further cut costs, acting as a veritable intermediary between buyers and sellers. Therefore, the tendency to sift through questionable middlemen, purchasing stolen or damaged cars is eliminated. Customers can customize their orders and are provided with a better experience in getting their vehicles. With keen foresight into the future, Carsplenty has also provided a platform for car dealers to purchase cars on auction online, creating a profitable and safe ecosystem where car dealers can get good deals from the comfort of their homes. Among other services such as car financing (the buy one pay later which allows customers to pay for a car in installments), online marketplace for brand new and used cars, verified car dealers across Nigeria, and trending deals, CarsPlenty has positioned itself as a blueprint for the future of the automobile industry. The brand’s sales model further proves that with the uncertainties that may abound, online
automotive retail markets are solid strategies to protect car dealers from disruptive events that may adversely affect sales. The pandemic inevitably accelerated the use of digital platforms, increasing the consciousness of dealers to alternative sales models and consolidation of business strategies. Transcending this experience to their offline showrooms that are located at Ajah and Ikeja,
Carsplenty has placed itself as a leading platform for stress-free transactions, providing an
easy-to-use platform. Combined with its ingenious and resourceful app that is available on the Google Playstore and the Apple Store, Carsplenty continues to expand the automobile industry in Nigeria, making convenience and accessible services its benchmark