Chuks Okocha in Abuja The National Chairman, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Iyorchia Ayu has vowed to deal with petition writers within Osun State PDP whom he accused of spreading falsehood and disinformation about contenders for offices in the state. Ayu, who was visibly angry over the activities of those he called saboteurs said the party would henceforth treat such conduct as anti-party activities adding that perpetrators would face disciplinary action. The party Chairman noted that the said petition writers put up reports to witch-hunt, adding that most times such petition are largely without foundation. He vowed to enforce discipline within the party. “We are going to be firm in dealing with petitions writers whose stock in trade is to falsely de-market other aspirants. We will inaugurate disciplinary committee of the party at all levels and we will ensure displine is enforced henceforth”, Ayu said. The party Chairman said Osun PDP has all the chances to win the upcoming governorship election and would therefore not allow some few self-serving individuals to destroy the chances of the party at the poll. He noted that the party had treated many petitions during the screening process but found them to without merit, adding that it is unacceptable for party members to deceive party leadership all in a bid to damage the names of opponents in a political contest. The Governor of Delta State , Senator Ifeanyi Okowa told the meeting that the Osun Congress was approved by the National convention while the National Legal Adviser denied assertions that a court order at Ile Ife nullified the Osun Congress held under Hon Sunday Bisi. But at the end of the meeting, the NWC set up a special committee to address all issues raised at the meeting. The committee is headed by former Deputy National Chairman and member of the PDP Board of Trustees (BOT) Shuaibu Oyedukun Meanwhile, the PDP has condemned the attack and arson on its office and the property of a prominent member located in Gombe, Gombe State capital, allegedly by hoodlums working for the fizzling All Progressives Congress (APC). The PDP described the attack on its office and the property of PDP’s Presidential Candidate in the 2019 general elections, Atiku Abubakar, as cowardly, criminal as well as a great threat to democracy, national security and peaceful co-existence in our country. In a statement by the National Publicity Secretary, Debo Ologunagba, the PDP said the mission of the APC was to terrorise the people with the intent to preventing them from participating in the electoral process ahead of the 2023 general elections, having realized that there is no way the APC can retain power in Gombe State and other parts of the country under a free, fair and credible process. He further said the APC in Gombe State was in disarray and panicky alleging that that the APC was rapidly falling apart in the face of mass desertion of its prominent members arising from the soaring popularity of the PDP so much so that it believes that the only way it can cling to power is through violence.