In recent times, women have been taking the rein of power and control in government and the corporate environment across the globe. Also in the business world, successful women are springing up and championing different industries, shoulder to shoulder with their male counterparts. This is not only promoting gender equality according to the United Nation Sustainable Development Goals; it is also helping to build the economy of our nations. To further strengthen the presence of women in the business terrain, Simplinteriors and Flair Finishes are launching the Women in Business Buffet (WIBB), a quarterly business conference that brings upcoming interior designers, design professionals and other businesswomen together to learn and be mentored by successful personalities in the business terrain. The maiden edition which will take place on Saturday, 26th of February 2022 at the Civic Center Victoria Island is themed Accessing Funds and Grants for Interior Designers in Nigeria. And the CEO of Africa Strategy Advisers, Odiete Efe Brainerd, who is the guest speaker served as an independent monitor/mentor on the hugely successful Federal Government YOUWIN Program in 2013. His organization, Africa Strategy Advisers, has helped several entrepreneurs access different grants and Funding for their businesses from financial institutions, Angel investors and VCs. And the renowned special guest is Annette Ibru, the founder and CEO of Dream Trading Décor and Interiors. According to the organizers, Joy Ofili-Yebovi (CEO of Simplinteriors) and Arc. Majekodunmi (CEO of Flair Finishes) the focus of the conference is to create SMEs educational and informative platform for business growth and opportunities for both established and aspiring interio.r designers and other women in business. The Women in Business Buffet (WIBB) promises its participants access to mentors who are major players in several industries, guides to accessing both local and foreign grants, networking opportunities, exposure to the right knowledge and innovative business tools for business growth, and free advisory sessions.