Chukwuemeka Okorie alias ‘212’ is the CEO and founder of Tuwantu music international, an indigenous record label company that originated from Eastern Nigeria in 2016. The company has managed operations from her Nigeria and London base before entering a period of hiatus some months ago. Chukwuemeka explained that the reason for the hiatus was so that they could step back and revisit the drawing board to see where they could effect some changes and tighten up their strategy. Prior to the break, Tuwantu music was home to a bunch of talented artistes who he had the pleasure of working with to help actualize their dreams of becoming superstars. He also acknowledged the constant wave of trends in the industry further stating how important it is for them as a company to always stay ahead of these trends. As he plans to make a strategic comeback into the industry fold, Chukwuemeka is confident that the tactics which he intends to deploy will put him in graceful competition with the likes of Mavin Records, Universal, Sony Music and Empire Africa who are some of the biggest market shareholders in Afrobeats today. He plans to do this by partnering with foreign labels who have their eyes set to explore the potential of new, untapped talent in Africa and invest in them. He is especially keen on making sure talents from his region in the east are given a fair chance of opportunity at stardom, which he believes will end the long period of neglect that the eastern side has suffered simply because they are not regarded as a commercial hub to market/export music like the sister territory, Lagos. High as his ambition may seem, Chukwuemeka is ready to take on the challenge. He will lean on his working experience, acquired knowledge and robust network of professionals which he built from almost a decade of active career service. Aside from foreign partnerships, Chukwuemeka also revealed that he will be delving into other fields like football, tech and events, adding that these would serve as tent poles to support and drive his ambition. Chukwuemeka continues to be inspired by the successes of music maestro, Don Jazzy, especially on building the Mavin brand, and is happy to have been part influence in Kcee’s decision to depart from generic African pop music to authentic gospel compositions that represent the true heritage and culture of the east. He’s urged us to stay expectant for more information coming from the Tuwantu music stable as he intensifies efforts for his big bang comeback. 