Emma Okonji Few days after it announced that it raised $250 million for business expansion, Flutterwave has unveiled its new brand identity, backed with the introduction of new products that would enhance customers’ experience. The rebranding showcases Flutterwave as a technology company enabling growth and creating endless possibilities for all. The new brand identity and products were introduced at Flutterwave 3.0 virtual event, which held recently. Following the announcement of a $250 million Series D funding last week, Flutterwave decided to roll out its new and reimagined identity, to affirm its commitment to creating endless possibilities for all, through technology, as well as introducing new products and services that take the technology leader beyond payments. During the event, streamed across Youtube, the brand launched a series of products, including: A Fintech as a Service (FaaS) solution which helps startups of all sizes quickly become Fintech companies using Flutterwave’s pre-built API and solutions; Capital, a technology platform for businesses and consumers to access Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) as well as Merchant lending from regulated and certified credit providers; Grow, a B2B product that helps entrepreneurs easily incorporate their businesses globally; and Checkout, a new checkout experience that is 5x faster, reducing drop-off by 60 per cent. Other products introduced include: Card issuing, a technology platform to enable businesses to issue both Mastercard virtual and physical debit/prepaid cards to their customers in partnership with Mastercard. Flutterwave, however said the products were still subject to regulatory approval. Additional improvements to existing products included: a new powerful dashboard, Barter v4, and an AI-powered compliance process. The Flutterwave visual rebrand came with six new primary colours which depict creativity, motivation, passion, ease, robustness and eagerness. Speaking about the new initiative, the Founder and CEO of Flutterwave, Olugbenga Agboola, said: “We are growing and for us, payments have become a means to an end. Every part of our lives includes some form of transaction. Beyond powering those transactions, we want to also create those transactions. “We want to help event organisers seamlessly register and sell out their events, we want to help artists receive money for their craft, we want to help entrepreneurs incorporate their businesses. Our new identity is a system that recognises how far we have come in our mission.” Head of Branding and Storytelling, at Flutterwave, Yewande Akomolafe-Kalu said, “We always wanted to simplify payments for endless possibilities for our customers. Over time, we’ve come to see that the story of our impact goes well beyond payments. We understand how important it is to embrace the full story of our journey and make it a part of our identity. We’re excited to create endless possibilities through technology.” The Vice President of Design at Flutterwave, Ted Oladele said: “During our first ever rebrand meeting, we asked ourselves; how much does our brand communicate who we are? We discovered we were confining ourselves to a single story of our brand when we were much bigger than that. This new brand is freedom. It enables us to create solutions that help people, whether payments or not. It recognises our growth and actively asks us to do more.”