As part of conscious efforts to change the negative narrative of Nigeria’s oil-rich Niger Delta region, young professionals have tasked governors of the region to invest more in human capacity building and create purposeful opportunities for young people, especially entrepreneurs and start-ups, to thrive. The initiative was set up by stakeholders who gathered at the 2nd Niger Delta MSME Summit held on Saturday, February 19, in Asaba, Delta State, with the theme: ‘Stimulating MSMEs Growth Towards Post Covid-19 Recovery’. They advocated that governments of the region must move away from the political tradition of just signing and awarding contracts, to strategic empowerment and support for innovative creative minds in the region. The event, jointly organized by the Niger Delta Young Professionals (NDYP) and the Nigerian Young Professionals Forum (NYPF), was sequel to the pioneer edition held in Port Harcourt, the Rivers State capital, in February 2021. Delivering his opening remarks at the event, the Chairman of the NYPF and Convener of the Summit, Mr Moses Siloko Siasia, explained that the event was aimed at creating a platform for young business owners to interface with agencies of government and stakeholders on how to best access information, access credit, get support facilities, as well as build strategic relationships and networks. The summit, according to him, will also go a long way in changing the wrong perceptions of militancy and other forms of unrest that many associate the region’s youthful population with. “Today, if you go to Google and search for Niger Delta youths, what you will see are youths with guns inside speed boat and all those bad stuffs. We must change that, we must change that negative narrative, this is not the narrative of the Niger Delta people, our leaders must help us to change that narrative because the time for politics is over in today’s world. “We are in the fourth industrial revolution where people are using digital intelligence and technology to change the world’s economies. We must conform to modern reality and that is why we are doing this MSME Summit to help our young people, so that they can build the capacity to create sustainable livelihood for themselves, their family and the society,” he said. Siasia further called on successful big whims from the region like Tony Elumelu, CEO of Heirs Holdings; Herbert Onyewumbu Wigwe, Group Managing Director of Access Bank; Jim Ovia, Chairman of Zenith Bank; Atedo Peterside, Founder of Stanbic IBTC Bank; and many others to deliberately leave their footprints on the region, stressing that charity begins at home. Lending his voice to the call, the CEO of BlueCamel Energy Limited, Mr Suleiman Yusuf, lamented that successful people are not enjoying the full proceeds of their wealth, owing to youth restiveness and numerous forms of insecurity arising from the absence of platforms to productively engage the youths. “Success has found its way to the long list of problems we have in Nigeria because successful people in private industry or government cannot freely enjoy their wealth. They live in highly fortified houses, travel in armoured vehicles and cannot move around without armed personnel. “This problem exists because there are no jobs and support mechanisms to promote the spirit of entrepreneurship among youths. Unless jobs are created and young people are engaged, there will be no peace in the Nger Delta and other regions. Government and well-to-do individuals must begin to allocate resources towards human capacity development, especially for young people who are leaders of tomorrow,” he submitted. On his part, the Executive Secretary of the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB), Mr. Simbi Wabote, ably represented by the Board’s General Manager, Capacity Development, Dr. Ama Ikuru, acknowledged that Nigeria ranks poorly in terms of human capacity development index. According to him, “The discussions we are having at this summit can change the narrative. We want to see the emergence of young entrepreneurs and support them to succeed. We want to put tools in their toolboxes to ensure the security and economic prosperity of our nation.” While noting that the NCDMB has interventions in place to help promote entrepreneurship such as the $350 million Nigerian Content Intervention Fund to help businesses in the oil and gas industry access finance, the executive secretary added that the Board will continue to associate and support anything that is in the best interest of the good people of Nigeria, especially its vibrant youth population. Saturday’s event saw the convergence of over 1,000 participants from the nine Niger Delta states who gathered to build on the success of the innaugural summit held last year, where over 300 Niger Deltans benefitted from the NIRSAL intervention loan for small business owners in the area of agriculture. In his closing remarks, Siasia appreciated stakeholders that supported the summit, including the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), led by its Governor, Godwin Emefiele, who is from Delta State; Heritage Bank Plc, Dr Ifie Sekibo; the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB), Wabote; and the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) led by Mr Effiong Akwa. The high point of the event was the sharing of heart-touching testimonies by some successful business owners in the Niger Delta. They appreciated stakeholders for the platform, stressing that they have grown successful businesses with youths under their employment, whereby creating jobs. It is worthwhile to note that the 2022 Niger Delta MSME Summit is the 48th event to be organised by the NYPF. The NYPF has in the space of a few years, held value-adding events in Nigeria and abroad. In one of its strategic events held at New York in 2016, the then United Nations (UN) Secretary-General, Ban Ki-moon, sent a special goodwill message to the NYPF acknowledging its drive for human capacity development. The third edition of the Niger Delta MSME Summit will hold at Akwa Ibom in 2023.