Emma Okonji Payment Service Bank, 9PSB, has emphasised the need to pay close attention to content creation as an important factor in driving and accelerating financial inclusion in the country. The Chief Executive Officer of 9PSB, Branka Mracajac, made the assertion recently, while presenting a keynote address, themed “Content Creation and Financial Inclusion; The Future of Digital Banking” at the Tech Summit Ogun 2022, which held at the Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential Library Abeokuta, Ogun State. Mracajac stated that such move would enhance the future of digital banking in the long-term. According to her, while there are ongoing efforts to support the country’s financial inclusion drive, a lot more rest on formulating tailored strategies that address specific needs. “Providing access to the banking agents and touch points, across the country is happening as we speak;payment service banks, microfinance banks, and FinTech companies are all working on this. But will this be enough? Will the access to digital banks change the mindset of Nigerians in rural areas of the country and be enough to drive the transition from cash to cashless society” she questioned. She added that, developing content that speaks only to the already banked and mirroring the digital financial habits of those who are fully included and heavily banked, will not help to keep the newly on-boarded in the system long-term. She stated: “While creating and delivering the content for financial inclusion, we need to have in mind the needs of its beneficiaries, the targeted end-users of the financial services who are currently underserved and the only sustainable way is that we join our forces and create the content – apps and services that will address the specific needs of a farmer in Benue, market women in Onitsha, trader in Kano, fisherman in Delta, and the woman selling ofada rice in Ogun State.” In his keynote address, titled “Disruptive Innovation: Production and Distribution of Creative Content, the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr. Ali Ibrahim Pantami, who was represented by the Chief Executive Officer, Nigerian Communications Satellite Limited (NIGCOMSAT), Dr. Abimbola Alale, remarked that the quality of creatives and start-ups that Nigeria has produced is a testament to the potential of the ecosystem, and as such the ministry will continue to support the tech and creative entrepreneurs to play their part in developing Nigeria’s digital economy.