Udora Orizu in Abuja The Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP) has urged the 36 state governors to redirect public funds budgeted to pay ex-governors undeserved pensions and other retirement benefits towards paying the counterpart funds that would allow poor children to enjoy access to quality basic education in your state. SERAP said the 36 states had reportedly failed to pay the counterpart funds to access over N51 billion matching grants earmarked by the Universal Basic Education Commission (UBEC) for basic education in the country, as at July 2019. In the letter dated February 19, 2022, and signed by SERAP’s Deputy Director, Kolawole Oluwadare, the organisation said the report by UBEC that several states failed to access N51.6 billion of matching grants suggested that they were doing little for poor children. The letter, sent to each of the 36 governors, read in part: “We would be grateful if the recommended measures are taken within 14 days of the receipt and/or publication of this letter. If we have not heard from you by then, SERAP shall consider appropriate legal actions to compel your state to comply with our request in the public interest. “The enjoyment of the right to education for millions of poor children remains a distant goal. In several states, this goal is becoming increasingly remote. The persistent failure to pay counterpart funds has hugely contributed to denying poor Nigerian children access to quality basic education, opportunities and development. “State governors are clearly in a position to invest more toward the progressive realisation of the right to quality education for poor children within their states. “Rather than spending public funds to pay ex-governors undeserved pensions and other retirement benefits and apparently using security votes for patronage and political purposes, governors should prioritise investment in education by immediately paying up any outstanding counterpart funds to UBEC. “SERAP is separately seeking information from UBEC about the details of counterpart funds that have been between 2019 and 2022. In the meantime, SERAP urges you to clarify if your state has paid any counterpart fund between July 2019 and 2022. States should prioritise paying their counterpart funds over and above spending on life pensions and other misallocation of scarce resources. “Immediately paying your counterpart funds for basic education in your state would be a major step forward for children’s rights, and show your commitment to ensure the rights and well-being of all children, regardless of their socio-economic backgrounds.”