466 Boko Haram, ISWAP fighters surrender with families Kingsley Nwezeh in Abuja The Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Oladayo Amao, yesterday declared that there was no hiding place for terrorists and insurgents in the country. His declaration came as the Defence Headquarters (DHQ) said intense aerial and artillery bombardment of terrorists’ positions in the North-east compelled the surrender of 466 Boko Haram and ISWAP terrorists and their families, comprising 120 adult males, 137 adult females and 209 children, who claimed to have lost interest in the Boko Haram ideology. Reviewing recent gains made against terrorists and insurgents in line with the operational objectives, Amao, who met with Branch Heads, Air Officers Commanding(AOCs) and other senior officers in Abuja, ordered increased and sustained fire power to completely decimate the capabilities of all armed groups in the country. Amao, who expressed satisfaction with the progress made so far, especially in eliminating key terrorists in the North-east and North-west as well as destroying their hideouts, charged NAF personnel engaged in ongoing joint operations to go after those against Nigeria’s peace and progress while “ensuring that there is no hiding place for all terrorists and insurgents.” Air Marshal Amao also vowed to meet the operational requirements of all NAF units involved in joint operations so as to minimise threats posed by terrorists, insurgents and other criminals. The CAS then charged heads of operational units to continually ensure the provision of close air support to Nigerian Army troops and other security agencies while sustaining the momentum until all terrorists were smoked out and neutralised.
“We mustn’t relent until peace is restored to all affected areas,” he said. Meanwhile, the Director of the Defence Media Operations (DDMO), Maj. Gen Bernard Onyeuko, said 466 Boko Haram and ISWAP terrorists and their families, comprising 120 adult males, 137 adult females and 209 children, who claimed to have lost interest in the Boko Haram ideology, surrendered to troops in the North-east. He said troops battled the terrorists in Bama, Mafa, Dikwa, Gamboru,Gwoza, Banki junction and Kondiya all in Borno State, killing 63 insurgents even as 86 members of the terror groups were arrested. “Cumulatively, the troops within the last two weeks, neutralised 63 fighters, arrested 86 members of the terrorists, recovered four gun trucks, 25 AK47 rifles, 56 magazines with 6.2mm special ammunitions, 78 rounds of different calibers of ammunitions, 67 packets of rounds on links, three FN grenades and three bandoliers. “Additionally, 20 abducted civilians were rescued by own troops. The surrendered terrorists have been properly documented and handed over to the appropriate authorities for necessary actions,” he said. On its operations in the Niger Delta, he said naval troops deactivated 38 illegal refining sites.
“Consequently, troops within the period under review, recovered a total of 1,118,175 litres of illegal AGO and 2,086.000 litres of stolen crude oil. “Similarly, troops discovered 38 refining sites, 100 metal storage tanks, 25 dugout pits, 75 cooking ovens, 20 cotonou boats, 35 Yamaha pumping machines, 15 coolants as well as 10 tankers were recovered.
“Also, 35 galvanised pipes illegally connected were destroyed. Furthermore, 13 economic saboteurs associated with pipeline vandalism were arrested,” he said.
He said all recovered items and apprehended criminals were handed over to the appropriate authorities for further action.