Nume Ekeghe Senator Oduah recently visited the site to inspect road projects being done in her consistency in a bid to provide succour and enhance commence in the surrounding communities. This was disclosed byNume Ekeghe the Senator’s Director of Media/Publicity, Ezennia Nonso Chukwudebe made this known in a statement made available to THISDAY.
Chukwudebe said: “Anyone that has plied the stretch that leads to Nsugbe from the 33 junction and the 33 road stretch that terminates at St Theresa’s Catholic Church, knows how busy the area is with vehicular and human traffic being the order of the day.” “It is an axis where commerce is rife and for those who eke out a living along that busy stretch, the daily gridlock has unfortunately meant a loss of revenue and time to not only them but the many commuters who have mostly resigned themselves to fate as a result of the terrible condition of the road.” He added that when you spend at least 3 hours daily in traffic trying to get to your place of work, it simply means that those invaluable lost hours could have been better utilised for maximum productivity and when you realize that this same ritual is enacted on the way back, it becomes glaring that an intervention is needed to save constituents from the great losses that have actually become a norm. He added: “This is exactly what the Distinguished Senator representing Anambra North, Princess Stella Adaeze Oduah OON has set out to accomplish for as we speak, contractors are working day and night to ensure that this unfortunate vicious cycle of unimaginable loss is addressed once and for all.” “On, the 20th day of February, the Distinguished Senator was on site to inspect the work being done and judging from the comments of commuters, it is safe to say that this is one intervention that is very dear to their hearts.” “A road is more than a passage for commuting but represents a means to many fruitful ends which when dilapidated, naturally leads to untold loss of time and revenue but with this highly needed intervention, constituents are poised to recover everything they ever lost and we say kudos to the Distinguished Senator.” He added that this project is one out of over 45 road projects the Senator has attracted and it is gratifying to note that even as we speak, work is ongoing at the ever-busy Okwei Street which houses a market. “The Okwei Street project is being done at night and on Sundays because the daily traffic at the market, makes it impossible for contractors to shut down the place during the day and this is the pragmatic thing to do.” “We enjoin commuters to exercise patience as the Senator is committed to ensuring the completion of these projects but we plead that on completion, they allow the roads properly “heal” before plying it with heavy trucks laden with wares for we have seen how this ugly practice has led to the damage of roads like Amobi Street, done in the past.” “Residents are enjoined to take ownership of these projects to ensure that this unfortunate practice does not rear its ugly head on these new projects. The Distinguished Senator who has promised an additional 26 road projects in this quarter, continues to lobby to ensure nothing that should accrue to the good people of Anambra North, eludes them and we celebrate her purpose driven and people oriented representation whilst looking forward to the completion of these projects,” he added