Dike Onwuamaeze The LG Electronics has provided hoteliers and professional drycleaners with new cutting-edge technological and energy saving appliances. The General Manager, Home Appliances Division, LG Electronics West Africa Operations, Mr. Brian Kang, said that the appliances which are now available in the Nigerian market belonged to the best technological innovative commercial washing machines, dryers, dishwashers and stylers. Kang stated this during the LG Electronics’ conference for real estate developers, consultants, hoteliers and professional drycleaners last weekend. He said that the conference was organised to introduce its key stakeholders to the world of possibilities and creativity that its products could provide and enable them to learn more about LG’s business solutions. Kang said: “LG business offers tailor-made solutions for hotels, restaurants, offices, and more, keeping them comfortable, secure and stylish. We offer a wide range of products, including commercial washing machines, dryers, stylers and other tailored solutions for different vertical markets. “We are developing key partnerships across industries to ensure our products provide their ever-changing business needs. Our products are all backed by excellent warranty and service plans because your business is as important to us as it is to you.” He said that the LG, with its long history of home appliance innovation, has for years been developing technologies to get clothes and dishes cleaner while at the same time relying less on chemical detergents. “Designed with the latest LG technology, our range of commercial laundry machines will give your clients quality clean clothes and leave them feeling fresher than ever. “LG uses powerful and natural steam to remove bacteria and germs requiring fewer detergents that pollute our wastewater systems. High-temperature TrueSteam is created by boiling water directly in the LG dishwasher, Styler and dryer. TrueSteam is hot enough to penetrate dirt, grime and grease to remove stains you can see and germs you can’t,” Kang added. He said that with the LG’s patented TrueSteam technology, the Styler could effectively prolong the life of not only clothes but a whole variety of household items.