Ibrahim Shuaibu The Kano State Governor, Mr. Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, on Sunday, said that he has never been so distressed in his political career prior to the Appeal Court judgment that confirmed Mr. Abdullahi Abbas Sanusi as the substantive Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state. Speaking at an APC Stakeholders Meeting with chairmen and secretary of the party in all the 44 Local Government Areas, yesterday at the Government House, Ganduje said that the judgment had given him a huge relief, assuring that he would keep that aside and continue moving APC and Kano State forward. The governor stated that APC in the state would come up with new rules, aimed at strengthening the party in a bid to win all elective positions come 2023. He assured the party members of improving their welfare, expressing gratitude to President Muhammadu Buhari and the Interim National Leadership of APC, led by Mr. Mai Mala Buni, for their huge role in resolving the crisis rocking the party in Kano. Ganduje, however, called on the Shekarau faction to sheath their swords and join hands with the APC leadership to move the party forward. “You can’t separate democracy with crisis in developing countries, especially in a state like Kano. But, the APC crisis in Kano is a fight between siblings, which must be reconciled. “Therefore, I called on the other faction to come and sheath their swords to join the train in order to take APC and Kano to the promised land,” said Ganduje. “This is not time to sleep and not the time to relax in the struggle to strengthen and move APC forward. “This will not also stop us from continuing with discharging our constitutional duty of executing developmental projects for the people of Kano,” he said. Earlier, the State’s APC Chairman called on the Shekarau faction to sheathe their swords and join hands to move the party and the state forward. Sanusi also extended the hand of friendship to all APC opposition to come and join the ruling party to win elections in 2023 for the development of the state. to the fact that another opportunity is coming for Nigerians, for Rivers people to decide the nature of the government that they want and it is achievable,” Abe added.