Lifestyle and health organisation, Dexqual Fitness, has unveiled a new e-book, fitness gadget, and wellness workout training sessions, which is offline and online, and designed to help customers of all ages and fitness levels, improve their health, as well as their lifestyle and wellbeing. In a statement issued and made available to THISDAY by Dexqual Fitness Publicist, Linda Dominguez, the Chief Executive Officer, EJ Emore, said the e-book aims at a simple short convenient full-body exercise routine to get you to start exercising regularly, and also includes a simple and affordable healthy African diet plan. “You are going to learn everything you need to know to make full-body exercise a regular part of your life -even if you’ve never exercised before, even if you don’t have much time. There is also a huge health benefit for people who do regular exercises,” the statement said. Dominguez quoted Emore saying that Dexqual fitness lifestyle is primarily a health/wellness, fitness and weight loss outfit, adding: “This organisation headed by Emore which is based in Delta State is poised with the vision of helping men and women maintain a healthy and fit lifestyle, eliminating the hazards of overweight. “Its mission is to also encourage a healthy lifestyle by applying healthy eating plans and diet and fitness techniques, moving from an unhealthy weight to a healthy weight range- building a lifelong plan. Dexqual Fitness is ideal for busy adults who struggle to carve out time each week for workout trainings.” The statement added: “Dexqual Fitness and team can help people of any fitness level see measurable results, build strength, increase muscle and bone density, lose fat, improve balance and posture, and experience fewer aches and pains. Best of all, this smarter-no-longer approach is safe, fast and effective with virtually zero risk of overtraining. “Dexqual fitness instructors are certified trainers and coaches, experts in fitness training, who have in-depth knowledge in fitness, health, and nutrition, with years of experience evaluating customers’ physical needs and helping them reach their fitness health and wellness goals.” She noted further that Dexqual fitness also offers effective workout routine and daily check; overall body/ weight loss maintenance; dance workout sessions; therapeutic massage; deep tissue massage; Swedish massage; thai massage; couples massage; Indian head massage; reflexology therapy (foot massage ); lymphatic therapeutic massage; swimming training/lessons, as well as de-exercises for corporate /specialised events . Dexqual fitness started in October 2017, and as the perfect accountability partners, they provide physical and mental guidance; teach new exercise skills, offers valuable nutrition information that helps clients stay motivated and purposefully driven. The trainers track clients’ progress regularly with whole-body fitness assessments, and know how to motivate clients, set goals and nutrition plans, and provide feedback and accountability.