Deji Elumoye in Abuja President Muhammadu Buhari has given an assurance that his administration remains committed to lifting the poor and vulnerable Nigerians from poverty. According to him, the poor and vulnerable in Nigeria remain top priority for protection and deserve lifting from the poverty cycle, noting that social safety nets would be further sustained, while access to education and opportunities would be expanded. Speaking yesterday in Addis Ababa, Ethiopian, at the virtual official presentation of the Country Review Report of Nigeria to the 31st Africa Peer Review Forum of the African Union, President Buhari said his government would also take advantage of Information, Communication and Technology to ensure inclusiveness, access and create more opportunities. He said: “Nigeria’s strategic focus, as we set out to achieve the objectives of the African Union Agenda 2063, has been around the following: Building a thriving and sustainable economy; Enhancing social inclusion and alleviating poverty; enlarging agricultural output for food security and sufficiency; attaining energy sufficiency in power and petroleum products. “Expanding transport and other infrastructural development, business growth, entrepreneurship and industrialisation; access to quality education, affordable healthcare and productivity, social cohesion and security; and, building a system that fights corruption and improves governance.
“Nigeria remains resolutely committed to achieving these set goals despite the challenges that the report highlighted, including the COVID 19 pandemic.”
The President reiterated that Nigeria had remained a committed and dedicated member of the African Peer Review family, after acceding to the Mechanism in 2003. “Today, the forum has presented its second peer review report on Nigeria. This Second Peer Review of Nigeria came at a critical time in the history of the country. From the report just presented, there is no doubt that the exercise was far-reaching, as it touched the various segments of Nigeria’s political-economy and highlighted the progress recorded since the first peer review. “The report also highlighted some challenges and as a country, we are prepared to review those challenges in the context of our internal dynamics in Nigeria, ultimately with the determination of achieving Agenda 2063 goals of the African Union,’’ he said. According to him, Nigeria remains grateful to be at the esteemed Forum of the Heads of State and Government, which provides a unique opportunity to present the Country Review Reports of some countries, including Nigeria’s. He said: “Let me use this opportunity to commend the President of South Africa for his dedication to the Forum since his election as the Chairperson of the African Peer Review Forum.
“I also recognise the distinguished Panel of Eminent Persons for their continued good work in steering the African Peer Review Mechanism process in all member countries. I recognise specifically, Dr. Abdoulie Janneh who led the Review Mission to Nigeria.”
President Buhari congratulated the other three countries (Namibia, Niger and South Africa) that were reviewed alongside Nigeria, commending the boldness and courage to present their countries for the comprehensive exercise. The Nigerian leader called on other member states to join and present themselves for review as well.
“There are so many lessons that we can all learn together. It is from learning these lessons and recommitting ourselves as a continent that we all can contribute to our collective efforts to achieve the objectives of the “Africa We Want”, he further said.