Ugo Aliogo
Eko Electricity Distribution Company (EKEDC) on Monday, launched Energy Clubs in selected schools within its network, to encourage young girls to take opportunities in the power sector. A statement by the Team Lead, Brand and Communication, Oluwasesan Raji, said the club activities were expected to promote the interest of female students in Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) disciplines, to achieve gender diversity and equity in the Power Sector and other related technical sectors. The statement also noted that the programme launch, which was held at Government Secondary School Ikoyi, is in partnership with the United States Agency for International Development, (USAID). The statement noted that the participating schools in the first phase of the year-long programme include Akande Dahunsi Community Secondary School, Ilado Community Junior Secondary School and Wahab Folawiyo Junior High School. The EKEDC’s Head Talent Management and Development, Alero Olayiwola, noted that the Club activities would run concurrently in the participating schools, for a period of 12 months. The statement disclosed that during the period, the company would provide the guidelines, curriculum and support the activities of the club before handing over to the participating schools for sustainability. She disclosed that the Programme would sustain the interest and commitment of students in STEM subjects and expose them to the knowledge, possibilities and opportunities that abound in the power and other technical sectors. In his remarks, EKEDC’s Chief Human Resource Officer, Aik Alenkhe, said the Energy Club, which is also part of the company’s corporate social responsibility (CSR) is geared towards actualising the Company’s mission, vision and core values. The Vice Principal of Akande Dahunsi Community Junior Secondary School, Alexander Nzekwe, while speaking on the initiative, noted that it will encourage students to be STEM focused and open them to the opportunities that are available in the power sector. EKEDC female engineers who spoke at the event, shared their personal experiences with the students and encouraged them to take advantage of the opportunities in STEM.