 The full rigour of the law must be applied to serve as a deterrent A magistrate court sitting in Abeokuta, Ogun State recently received a huge crowd of sympathisers. They had all come to witness the arraignment of four teenagers who allegedly murdered their 20-year-old female friend for money rituals. “Sofiat called for help when she was struck with a cutlass,” her boyfriend named Majekodunmi Soliudeen, 18, told the police. “It was sudden and prompt. She never expected such a treatment from me.” The offence contravened sections 324 and 316 of the Criminal Code Laws of Ogun State. Killing for rituals has become the crime of the moment for many desperate young Nigerians angling for quick wealth. And in the past few months, many of these criminals have sent their girlfriends, mothers, fathers, friends and many unfortunate others to their untimely graves. Last month, a 20-year-old man, Moses Oko, was arrested by the police for allegedly killing his girlfriend, a University of Jos’ 300-level student, Jennifer Anthony, for ritual purposes. Jennifer’s body was found at a hotel with her eyes gouged out and some other body parts missing. Barely five days later, the body of another lady, Plangnam Solomon, was found around the Plateau Radio TV Corporation in Rayfield in Jos. Her eyes and some sensitive body parts were also removed. Similarly, a 300 Level undergraduate of Delta State University, Abraka, Elozino Ogege was gruesomely murdered by a gang of four Yahoo boys. But unlike Jennifer Anthony who was reportedly drugged before her vital organs were removed, Ogege’s murder was horrifying and vicious. The assailants allegedly took the young lady to a bush where they plucked out her eyes while she was still alive and screaming. Amid the prevailing poverty in the land, many have resorted to doing anything, no matter how weird, for wealth. Superstition and ritualistic practices feed on one another. They work together to create a presumed reality that rests essentially on the belief in the magical and inexplicable, based on the notion of wealth without work and conscious effort. This is not helped by the avalanche of religious leaders and motivational speakers whose preachments now breed a growing population of young citizens who now see the pursuit of quick wealth and material pleasure as the only things worth striving for. The near deification of wealthy individuals, some of them with questionable means of livelihood, by traditional rulers, religious leaders, and the wider society, has not helped matters. Chieftaincy titles are now given to people with the deepest pockets. Mammon is now enthroned in the hearts of many who find themselves in places that are presumed to be the house of God. Besides, Nigeria’s prime movie industry, Nollywood, has also thrived on popularising the practices of money rituals in some poorly scripted, low-budget movies and has been a massive tool of communicating these superstitions to a vast demographic of impressionable and gullible citizens. The menace of ritual killings has become so pervasive, yet the police seem helpless. The ritual murder case at a popular hotel in Ife allegedly involving a private university proprietor has been muddled. A rebirth has therefore become both necessary and desperate. Values reorientation, 21st Century education, responsible leadership and entirely new approach to youth development are the needed critical success factors here. Policymakers must roll out a comprehensive sensitisation campaign to disinfect the minds of young Nigerians and take advantage of the democratised media space in countering these unproven claims of money rituals. Meanwhile, the fight against ritual killings and other menaces in our society is for all: The federal and state governments, local governments, traditional rulers, parents, and teachers are in the line of fire. The law on murderers as indeed all criminals must be stiffly enforced. Criminally minded persons can be checkmated if the law is strictly applied as it serves as a deterrent. The so-called “invincible” Badoo ritual killers whose blood-chilling activities paralysed Ikorodu, Lagos in 2017 were brought down when the law enforcement agents went after them. We should not relent until we create a culture where we uphold the sanctity of life at all costs and the safety of everyone is guaranteed, irrespective of social status. But over and above all is the call for true and authentic leadership and genuine moral exemplars. These are painfully lacking today.