Victor Ogunje in Ado Ekiti The United Nations Development Programmes (UNDP), has trained and disbursed vocational materials to 200 youths in Ekiti State in its bid to promote the practice of vocational works and tackle the menace of poverty, unemployment and insecurity. Speaking at the graduation and empowerment ceremony held in Ado Ekiti, yesterday, the UNDP team that was lead by Governance, Peace and Security, Mr. Mathew Alao, said the programme was carried out in partnership with the Ekiti State Board of Technical and Vocational Education (BTVE). Alao added that the programme, which was funded by the government of Norway and the UNDP, represented a fulfillment of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) policy thrust to stem the tides of unemployment, poverty and all forms of unrest and violent attacks in Ekiti State. He said that the beneficiaries were empowered after completing their trainings at the National Directorate of Employment and certified to be proficient enough to stand as employers of labour and operate in the economy. He, however, warned that the UNDP would call anyone would sell his tools to question. Aloa said: “I wish to assure that UNDP will continue to work with like-minded partners, including the UN agencies, bilateral and multilateral partners to implement strategic and innovative programmes to advance Nigeria’s development, economic progress and protection of human rights. “We will continue to accelerate our work to advance the course of youths, especially women and girls, who represented 64 per cent of the beneficiaries, to promote peace and sustainable development in Nigeria in line with the SDGs and the 2030 Agenda. “The feedbacks we are getting for this kind of programme from state governments that had benefited were heartwarming, particularly the fact that the programme is totally depoliticised to ensure that the right persons are captured as beneficiaries. “Let me state that your guarantor is indebted to you and if any of you should sell your tool, you are in trouble. But most disturbing is the fact that your guarantors too will be involved. Ensure that you neither sell nor misappropriate your tools. “These people are injected into the economy to contribute their quotas and when they are lifted up, they will have the power to also lift other youths up. Government must be serious about completing their projects, Ekiti doesn’t need abandoned project because we are financially challenged.” Commending the UNDP for the programme, the Chairman, Board of Technical and Vocational Education, Hon. Kayode Babade, applauded the body and government of Norway for providing all the necessary implements for the trainees to contribute to the country’s economic growth. Babade said: “I do not expect any of you to keep the tools or sell them and start to wander about again. What you all need for survival with the economic situation in the country has been given to you. Let it be known to you that you are under close watch and monitoring by the BTVE and our partner the UNDP. “You will be visited at no notice wherever you establish your trade to assess your performance. Any trainee that diverts or sell the tools will have a case to answer and so also the guarantor. I pray that God will open your eyes to see the bright future ahead of you.”