Fidelis David in Akure The Peoples Democratic Party in Ondo State has alleged that the state Governor, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu (SAN), has signed an Executive Order to provide legal cover for the ‘illegal appointment of his biological son, Babajide, as the director-general of Performance and Project Implementation Monitoring Unit (PPIMU) of the state. According to the party, the Executive Order, among other provisions, states that: “All ministries, department and agencies (MDAs) of the state government shall process approvals for projects through the Impact Assurance Process of PPIMU as constituted by this order.” In a statement made available to journalists in Akure yesterday by the state PDP Publicity Secretary, Kennedy Peretei, it alleged that the order was secretly signed because of the implications for the government. The statement read: “It is an order that has finally reduced the state commissioners, some of them accomplished in their various fields, to submit projects from their ministries for approval to the governor’s son, who will in turn depend on ‘professional corps of officers’ to give such approvals before the almighty governor appends his signature with the red pen. Governance has never been reduced to such a laughable extent in the history of the state. “As Akeredolu celebrates his fifth year anniversary as governor of Ondo State this week, the only question on many lips is: ‘Is this how things will continue to be in Ondo State?’ The response is to salute the people of the Sunshine State for their perseverance and endurance for these past five years of torture and pain. “Although there is no sign that things can ever get better under the incumbent administration, however, happenings within the government point to tougher times and ridicule for even those who hitherto considered themselves as privileged by virtue of their appointments. “As if to cover for the incompetence and lack of experience of the son to discharge such responsibilities demanded by his office, the Order states further that the operational Head of PPIMU appointed by the governor shall be the Director General/Special Adviser (DG/SA), and shall be supported by a professional corps of officers in various categories to be recruited from within and outside of the civil service.” PDP added: “Perhaps, it may be necessary to explain how late Governor Olusegun Agagu came up with the idea of Projects and Price Monitoring Unit (PPMU) attached to the Governor’s Office in 2003. It was to serve as a check on contractors that quoted bogus figures for government projects or items to be procured by the government. The unit provided information that enabled the government to benchmark prices. At that time, the unit was headed by a Chartered Accountant with several decades of experience to his credit. “When Governor Olusegun Mimiko came on board, realising that, the unit helped the government to save funds, he decentralised the unit to three senatorial Districts-each district is headed by a Senior Special Assistant. There was no need for swearing-in ceremony. PPMU was not an approving authority under previous administrations that Akeredolu copied this practice from.” The party added that the “deliberate destruction of the civil service and humiliation of the top echelon of the political class by Akeredolu is a time bomb that will consume his administration as a matter of course.” Reacting, the state Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Donald Ojogo, described PDP’s statement as a “display of gross lack of knowledge about public governance or another failed but usually warped twist to misinform the populace.” Ojogo said: “Both inferences are uncanny even as they represent all that connotes ignorance. This response, therefore, requires to subtly educating the opposition on the essence of institutional frameworks for good governance. “Yes, the Executive Order in reference is an official document duly signed by the governor. But was it signed with the governor’s son in mind? No. Will PPIMU commence and end with the governor’s son? No. Was there an institution like PPIMU as presently enunciated before now? No. Does PPIMU form part of an enduring government legacy intended to engender and deepen good governance in tandem with the ever-changing governance environment? Yes. Are there other bodies in the mold of PPIMU in various states across Nigeria? Yes, of course.”