Peter Uzoho The Eko Electricity Distribution Company (EKEDC) has signed an agreement with the Niger Delta Power Holding Company (NDPHC) Limited to improve electricity supply to its customers in Lagos and Ogun States by 200 megawatts. The company said the move would specifically enable it to improve power supply to Agbara in Ogun State, Lekki and tertiary institutions in Lagos State as well as many other areas within its operational network. General Manager, Corporate Communications, EKEDC, Mr. Godwin Idemudia, announced this in a statement yesterday, disclosed that the agreement was signed last week in Abuja between the power firms when the Chairman of EKEDC, Mr. Oritsedere Otubu, visited the NDPHC and other key stakeholders in the power industry. The project agreement, according to the statement, would ensure the improvement and upgrade of certain distribution infrastructure within EKEDC’s franchise area. The Disco stated that the agreement had ultimately set the foundation to assure the availability of reliable and quality power supply of up to 200MW to customers within Eko Disco’s network, including tertiary institutions. THISDAY learnt that the agreement was in furtherance to the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) signed between EKEDC and NDPHC last year, in Lagos in the presence of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, with the aim of identifying opportunities for the enhancement of power supply within EKEDC’s Network. At the meeting with industry stakeholders in Abuja, Otubu pointed out that the growth of industrial and commercial activities within the company’s franchise area had resulted in an increased demand for power supply. He said EKEDC currently receives between 400 to 450mw from the national grid via the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) but that the amount was no longer meeting the present demand of its customers. Otubu said, “We currently receive between 400-450MW from the national grid, and this can no longer meet the present demand of our customers. “Further, the current drop in load generation has placed us in a tough situation in which we have to carry out load shedding in some parts of our network. “Hence, we have embarked on this agreement with NDPHC to source for an alternative means of improving power supply to our customers.” The EKEDC chairman also noted that with this agreement, the company would supply more power to the tertiary institutions within its network such as the University of Lagos (UNILAG), College of Medicine at Idi-Araba, and Lagos State University (LASU) to boost academic activities in the schools. Also speaking at the event, Managing Director of NDPHC, Mr. Chiedu Ugbo, commended EKEDC for its efforts towards finalising the agreement which sets the pace to enable the delivery of the agreed MW via one of its subsidiaries, Alaoji Generation Company Limited. According to Ugbo, this would further enhance NDPHC’s mission of bridging the gap in the Nigerian Electricity Supply Industry (NESI) particularly around generation. He said NDPHC currently has about 4,000MW installed but is unable to dispatch it effectively due to constraints from the TCN’s infrastructure, hence the extension of its direct relations with the Discos. He lauded the initiative of the agreement, particularly the supply of adequate electricity to academic institutions. Representing UNILAG at the event, Deputy Vice Chancellor, Management Services, Prof. Lucian Chukwu, expressed his excitement about the agreement and attested to the cordial relations between EKEDC and the university. He, however pointed out that the institution started having challenges with the Disco on payment of bills due to the implementation of the Service Reflective Tariffs in 2020. With this agreement, Chukwu assured the two companies that the institution would make its own contributions towards making the project a success. Meanwhile, the EKEDC spokesman informed the customers that the company would continue to explore innovative ways to enhance and deliver reliable power supply. He appreciated the support from the customers which he said has been significant to the company in its mission to empower the quality of its esteemed customers’ lives.