Ferdinand Ekechukwu When she first hinted this reporter of her Hollywood debut alongside American-Senegalese superstar artiste, Akon sometime in 2017, in an interview, Nollywood darling actress Nse Ikpe-Etim wasn’t really quick to make known the name of the movie. Now fast-forward to the present, the movie titled ‘The American King- As Told by an African Priestess’ has been slated for a limited theatrical release in the US as well as a Video on Demand (VOD) on March 1, according to reports. Vision Films had earlier released the trailer some months back. And announced a day and date limited theatrical run which begins at The Sun Valley 14 in Charlotte, NC, The Laemmle in Glendale, CA, Studio Movie Grill in Philadelphia, and Emagine Theaters Chatham and Riviera 12 in Chicago and Detroit, respectively. In the lead role as Sebastian is the music star Akon while Nse plays the African High Priestess. Announcing it to her fans a couple of days back, the multiple-award winning actress, took to her Instagram page where she shared a teaser with the poster captioned “When a High Priestess arrives to fulfill a prophesy, she chooses an American to become King of African. Nse is #ThePriestess.” ‘The American King’’ also stars Enyinna Nwigwe, Miguel A. Nunez Jr, Jaimyon Parker, Brad Potts, Kelcey Watson, and Mother Love. Written and directed by Adah Obekpa, the story is loosely based on the firsthand experience of Obekpa, a prince and former heir to his father’s throne when King of the Idoma nation, Benue State, Nigeria. Shot on location in Nigeria and the United States, ‘The American King’ is a fish-out-of-water comedy that features Nse as a mysterious High Priestess who anointed Akon as a troublemaking American to fulfill a 400-year-old prophecy to become the new King of Africa. In ‘The American King’, Sebastian (Akon) is an ex-con dealing with some dangerous, yet sensitive Russian gangsters whom he owes money. Upon learning of the arrival of the High Priestess and Sebastian’s ascension to the throne, the CIA and the Vice President scramble to find pertinent information about this woman of mystery, leading to the unraveling of the most guarded secret about the founding of the United States of America. Lise Romanoff, CEO and Managing Director of Vision Films says, “The American King is a cross between Coming to America and Black Panther, and while this movie is delivered with comedy it depicts a very powerful commentary about the divisiveness and double standards in today’s society. We know audiences will have a good laugh and enjoy the very talented cast.”