Eromosele Abiodun
The Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), has renewed its Memorandum of Understanding (MoU), with the World Maritime University, (WMU) Malmo, Sweden. The move, according to NIMASA, is aimed at enhancing capacity development; to grow the Nigerian maritime sector.
Speaking shortly after the signing of the MoU virtually, the Director General of NIMASA, Dr. Bashir Jamoh noted that there is no substitute to education. “The Collaboration with the World Maritime University by NIMASA is to advance maritime interest while addressing the changing needs of the maritime industry based on sustainable capacity development; aseducation, training and capacity building play a major role in developing shipping in any nation”, he said. Jamoh used the opportunity to disclose that the Agency is at an advanced stage in setting up a Regional Maritime Safety and Security Research Center to enhance research works. The centre is to take care of capacity development in 25 African countries.
On her part, the President of the WMU, Dr. Cleopatra Doumbia- Henry noted that NIMASA is playing a leading role in developing capacity for the maritime industry in the Gulf of Guinea region. She commended Nigerian students who have passed through the University, welcomed the agreement and added that NIMASA is one of the first supporters of WMU. Accordingly, she stated that the initiative also supports the WMU’s commitment to the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). “Nigeria leads, others follow. WMU is delighted to be associated with NIMASA and its work, which extends beyond national boundaries, and has a significant effect on the whole region. We are also pleased to have such a successful and warm relationship with NIMASA and its staff – it is a perfect example of international cooperation for sustainable growth. I look forward to the fruitful outcome of our collaborative efforts as articulated in the Memorandum and based on the principles of equity, reciprocity and mutual benefit.”