Okon Bassey in Uyo No fewer than 1, 767 households affected by fire disaster and communal crisis in Mbo Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom in 2021 have been assisted by the federal government. The National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) yesterday distributed building materials and food items worth millions of naira to the beneficiaries. The Director-General of NEMA, Mr. Mustapha Ahmed, who flagged off the distribution in Mbo LGA, said President Muhammadu Buhari approved the release of the relief materials to the communities as apart of federal government efforts to assist the citizens. Ahmed, who was represented by the Zonal Coordinator, NEMA, South-south, Mr. Godwin Tepikor, said 1,183 households in Ibaka community and 584 households in Ewang community all in Mbo LGA were beneficiaries of the federal government gesture. He explained that the relief materials were distributed to households who were affected by Ibaka fishing fire disaster, which occurred on May 26, 2021, and those affected by Ewang communal crisis on February 24, 2021. Ahmed appealed to communities to live in peace with one another to avoid future occurrence of such disaster, stressing that money spent on relief materials would have been used for development of the communities. According to him, “Today, the federal government, through NEMA, is presenting relief items comprising building materials and food items to victims of 2021 fire disaster and communal crisis in Mbo communities in Akwa Ibom State. “About 1,183 households from Ibaka community and 584 households from Ewang are to benefit from the intervention, and it is not meant to compensate for what you have lost but to identify with you during this moment. “As we are presenting this intervention, NEMA is appealing to you to live in peace with your neighbouring communities to avoid future occurrence.” The DG conveyed the sympathy of the federal government to the state and indeed all those affected by both disasters. He advised communities to eschew acts capable of causing another disaster in their domain. In his remark, the state Deputy Governor, Mr. Moses Ekpo, commended the federal government and NEMA for the donations, and pledged that the beneficiaries would make judicious use of the items. Ekpo, who was represented by the Permanent Secretary in his office, Mr. Nkopuruk Ekaiko, appealed to communities in the state to avoid communal conflicts, adding that conflicts are not beneficial to anyone.