Ugo Aliogo Ahead of 2023 general elections, some concerned Nigerians across the world under the aegis of Nigerian Patriotic Quest(NPQ), have stated that there is need to elect leaders who would make Nigeria work better and transform its fortunes for the benefit of all.
of the country.
In a communiqué issued at the end of a physical/online meeting held in Washington DC, United States(US) recently, NPQ said the era of money politics, which is the anchor and strategy of the career politicians, should be buried forever.
“We need leaders who can transform our health system, education, industries, agriculture, security, electricity and infrastructure for the benefit of all,” they said.
According to the communique signed by the Coordinator of NPQ, Ahmed Ja’Usman Tijani, on behalf of all participants in the meeting, Nigerians should ask themselves the benefit of the token and gifts that they receive every electoral season in order to foist on themselves as agents of darkness.
“It would it not be better, if the country enthroned leaders, “who will make Nigeria work for ourselves and our children,” they said.
The concerned Nigerians further explained that in the country they are individuals that have created massive values through dint of hard work, managerial acumen and unbridled spirit of entrepreneurship.
“These men, who have created something out of nothing deserve to be pushed forward at this time in order to rescue Nigeria from the edge of the precipice,” they said.
According to them, “It is the duty of all Nigerians to identify such people, who are not tainted by the murky politics of the past, encourage and support them to participate fully in the forthcoming elections. The meeting also resolved that for Nigeria to achieve her full potentials, it is time to totally reject the politics of religion and ethnicity. The career politicians have used these props for long as a means of gaining and perpetuating themselves in power to the detriment of the nation and the people.
“Those of us in Diaspora have seen how the advanced countries developed their economies by attracting talents, labour and resources across race, ethnicity and religion. Until we retire the career politicians, who have created and used these divisions to attain and perpetuate themselves in power we will continue to wallow in poverty and underdevelopment. That it is time to build a new vanguard of leadership which is totally anchored on competence and track record of verifiable achievements.”
The members of NPQ remarked that the biggest drawback to Nigeria’s emergence as a strong progressive nation lies in the failure of leadership, adding that leadership failure can be attributed to the strangle hold on the reins of power by the old class of career politicians.
“This set of leaders have failed to use the instruments of power to build the nation, but are only interested in acquiring power for the sake of power. This has been the bane of Nigeria and it is disheartening that such characters are already parading the national space, with the intention of attaining power at various levels come 2023 in order to continue their destructive politics of self aggrandisement. Nigeria cannot afford to tow this path again. It is time for a new leadership to emerge,” they said.