Blessing Ibunge in Port Harcourt The Centre for Environment, Human Rights and Development (CEHRD) has urged the Nigerian government at all levels, corporate organisations and citizens to conserve, create and restore wetlands for a safer earth. The Head, Environment and Conservation Unit, CEHRD, Dr. Kabari Sam, made the call yesterday in Port Harcourt, in commemoration of 2022 World Wetlands Day. The non-governmental organisation advised government to take steps to save wetlands from disappearing and restore degraded wetlands. Sam, who noted that the Niger Delta is the largest wetland in Africa and the fourth-largest mangrove in the world, said that it is one of the most degraded deltas. He stressed: “This year’s commemoration is focused on the value of the wetlands, importance of managing wetlands, significance of wetland restoration and how people can demonstrate love towards wetlands. “The rich biodiversity stock of the region, which sustained livelihoods, cultural practices, reduces floods, absorbs pollutants, contributes to peace and serves as a defense mechanism, is fast disappearing due to the activities related to the oil and gas industry and careless resource use. “This has further exposed the three Ramsar Wetlands of International repute in the region to significant risk of degradation, yet there are no national, regional and local efforts towards wetland management. “Corporate and individual actions, including, but not limited to wetland reclamation for social development, mangrove and coastal degradation, would have severe consequences on global and local populations. Artisanal oil refining (fondly called Kpofire) is a major threat to wetlands. “To a large extent, limited understanding of the role and value of wetlands towards climate change reduction exacerbate the situation. “Considering the connection between nature and human development, CEHRD insists that the achievement of climate change reduction and a number of the sustainable development goals (SDGs) will remain elusive in Nigeria as long as the integrity of life-supporting ecosystem goods and services is compromised by unregulated human activities. “It is on this premise that CEHRD urges the government, corporate organizations and citizens to deliberately conserves, create and restore wetlands for a safer earth.” The group further urged the Rivers State Government and other states in the Niger Delta to develop a wetland management policy, backed by effective policies and legislations. “Government at all levels should deliberately invest financial, human, political capital to save wetlands from disappearing and restore those already degraded,” they said.