Funmi Ogundare Registrar of the Medical Laboratory Science Council of Nigeria, Mr. Tosan Erhabor, has advised 78 graduates of the Babcock University, Ilishan Remo, Ogun State who were inducted into the council yesterday to remain diligent and focused in the performance of their duties despite the prevailing challenging situations in the country. Erhabor expressed the readiness of the council to continue to collaborate with Babcock University to further energise its Department of Medical Laboratory Science with additional top class faculty members. He stated that the council would work with relevant stakeholders to improve the standards of medical laboratory science training in Nigeria in line with international best practices. The registrar said: “The Medical Laboratory Science Council of Nigeria is delighted to associate with the university and its landmark achievements in galvanising 78 students for the induction ceremony and also for being one of the flagship universities in South Western Nigeria.” The Vice Chancellor of the Babcock University, Professor Ademola Tayo, advised the inductees to set the needs of their patients before that of the system, saying that they would be rewarded someday if they do that. “Always remember that people will look up to you, respect what you do and say. People will trust you, confide in you, and appreciate your efforts. You can do exceptional things for people if you don’t let the system weigh you down,” Tayo said. He advised them that collaboration with other professionals would be critical to their success. “Your job requires you to collaborate very closely with physicians and medical laboratory technicians in diagnosing and monitoring disease processes, as well as monitoring the effectiveness of therapy,” the vice chancellor said. He also advised them to understand their work environment, since they are going to work in places that would be different from the typical classroom setting. In his remarks, the Head of Department of Medical Laboratory Science of Babcock University, Professor Ihongbe, encouraged the inductees to interact with people and adopt the core values of Babcock University in their attitude at all times, noting that humility pays. He also urged them to always remember their parents who have invested massively in their education. The Deputy Vice Chancellor Academics, Professor Philemon Amanze, urged the grandaunts to take the qualities of wisdom, efficiency and resilience they have imbibed in the university with them, adding that they should embrace life with passion and keep reaching for greater heights in order to make the world a better place. “Believe in yourselves as Babcock believes in you. It is certain that you will become competent, diligent and trustworthy professionals,” he said.