Sylvester Idowu in Warri The Association of Professional Bodies of Nigeria (APBN), Delta chapter has pledged its readiness to collaboration with the Palace of the Olu of Warri on socio economic development of Warri kingdom. Chairman of APBN, Delta Chapter, Mr. Sony Ali, made the pledge at the weekend when he led the newly elected members of the state executive on a courtesy visit to the Olu of Warri, Ogiame Atuwatse 111 in Warri. He also assured the royal father of the association’s readiness to offer intellect and skills on any issue the palace needed its attention. While seeking assistance from the king, Ali said that the association would appreciate, if the Olu could attend the formal inauguration of the new executive in March. “We congratulate you on your selection and coronation as the 21st Olu of Warri Kingdom and the Ogiame Atuwatse 111. Evidently, yours is one of the foremost Royal Institutions in Nigeria and representing traditional and cultural manifestation of the people’s cultural heritage. “Having observed your antecedents in less than one year of your coronation and your recent visit to President Muhammadu Buhari, APBN, Delta chapter decided to embark on this visit. “APBN wants Ogiame Atuwatse 111, the Olu of Warri Kingdom becomes one of our patrons in this Chapter,” he said. Ali said the association had lined up a lot of activities for this year and next year in order for them to actualize their objectives, impact on society and remain relevant. “We shall, therefore, be knocking on your doors often to seek your royal counsel,” he said. Speaking on the evolution of the association, Ali said that APBN was established in 1983 while the Delta chapter was inaugurated on July 19, 2012. He also said the association currently had 24 professional bodies at the national level while the state chapter had 14 professional bodies. Ali said the objective of the association was to continue to provide vibrant platform to support the government in nation building efforts through constant engagement and confidence building. He added APBN provides Nigeria with an effective forum for transmitting to government aggregate views of the nation’s professionals on matters of public interest. Ali assured that the association would continue to make contributions on key policy thrust and programmes of the government At the state level, the chairman said that the association promote, foster and advanced the interest of professionals and professional bodies. “We also influence and collaborate with opinion leaders and the government alike in initiating and adopting policies that will improve professionalism and development in the state,” Ali said. Responding, the Olu of Warri thanked the association for the visit and assured them of the palace readiness to support them.