Emmanuel Addeh The Nigerian Liquefied Natural Gas (NLNG) Limited, has said that there’s no truth in an online report linking the company’s officials with the illegal shipment of at least $1 billion worth of oil to the Americas. The online medium had captioned the story: “Exclusive: How Top Officials In Nigerian Corporations, NLNG, NNPC Operate International Cartels, Illegally Ship Over $1 billion Oil To US, South American Countries.” But in a statement, General Manager, External Relations and Sustainable Development, Andy Odeh, described the report as false and malicious.
He added that it was calculated to cast the company and its leadership in bad light, as no opportunity was ever offered to the company to react or respond to the allegations prior to the publication. “Clearly, the report is at best a figment of the writer’s imagination. Either the author of the report was simply being mischievous, or is totally deficient in knowledge of the dynamics of the global LNG industry,” NLNG stated. To set the records straight, NLNG stated that deliveries of LNG from its Bonny Terminal complies with all regulatory requirements for the export of its products and are made under various term and spot sales contracts. According to the company, these deliveries are made to destinations such as Europe, the Far East, Greater Middle East, North America and South America, thus ensuring NLNG’s position as a significant competitive global LNG supplier. The statement stressed that NLNG remains a responsible corporate citizen, operating its business according to strong business principles and ethics in accordance with requirements of relevant Nigerian and global laws and regulations. “From the commencement of its operations in October 1999, NLNG has never, and does not, engage in illegal or backdoor exportation of LNG or any of its products, nor is NLNG involved in any international cartel, as alleged. “It is simply not true that ‘the illegal exportation is still ongoing with the backing of some players in NLNG”. Accordingly, the company stated that the LNG trade undertaken by the company is bound by strict protocols and controls, hence not amenable to the kind of illegitimate schemes alleged in the report.