Emmanuel Addeh in Abuja A Chieftain of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Mr. Gbenga Olawepo-Hashim, has counselled those he said messed up Nigeria to stay away as candidates for positions in the 2023 general election. In a statement, the politician stated that those who put the country in ruins cannot suddenly start parading themselves as the solution to the rot holding the nation down. The former presidential candidate argued that those who he accused of pillaging the country, including their bankers, business fronts, partners, media handlers and enablers cannot be grandstanding as pathfinders of a new Nigeria. “Corrupt people and their allies cannot midwife the birth of a new Nigeria and those who messed up the country and pushed the nation into the hole cannot come and present themselves as the light to get us out of the dark tunnel we find ourselves. “Only people of proven integrity, unquestionable patriotism , with clarity of vision and courage should be allowed by the good people of Nigeria in the next rounds of elections if the country will not become irreversibly ruined,” he said. According to him, it will be an unfathomable tragedy to allow those whom he said have stolen Nigeria blind to plan the future of the country. He added that a good step in winning the battle to reduce corruption, if not to kill it totally, is to ensure that corrupt people with unexplainable wealth do not get elected at any level. “Those who have explanation to make to anti-graft agencies and are aspiring for public offices, must be put to task about their integrity question,” he noted. The businessman and energy executive maintained that though the fight against corruption was a major plank of the Muhammadu Buhari administration, corruption has become one of the major reasons for the slow progress in the polity. In his opinion, it also remains at the underbelly of some of the security problems being faced in the country, such as banditry and kidnapping. “Nigeria loses a lot to corruption. According to PricewaterhouseCoopers (PWC), a global consulting outfit, if not arrested by 2030, corruption will be costing Nigeria 37 per cent of her Gross Domestic Product (GDP), that is $200 billion, a whooping N100 trillion, about 10 times our national budget. “This will translate to $1,000 per capita; N500,000 by each Nigerian. The significance of this on our lives, in terms of avoidable death is staggering,” he argued. Two years ago, the Human and Environmental Development Agenda (HEDA), a frontline anti-corruption advocacy group in Nigeria, Olawepo-Hashim recalled, published a compendium of 100 high profile corruption cases in Nigeria. He noted that the revelation of stolen monies ran into billions of naira and foreign currencies perpetrated by mostly political office holders and politically-exposed persons. Olawepo-Hashim, therefore concluded that corruption in Nigeria is in various dimensions, adding that it is eroding ethics as well as values and was breeding a feeling of impunity, wherein it is believed there will be no consequence for wrongdoing.