Either caused by war, natural disasters, famine, and outbreak of disease, Humanitarian crises often threaten the health, safety or wellbeing of any nation. Chiemelie Ezeobi reports that for Hon. Imaan Sulaiman-Ibrahim, the Federal Commissioner, National Commission for Refugees, Migrants and Internally Displaced Persons, her intrepidness and resort to developmental approach will ameliorate the Nigerian situation As an emerging politician, administrator and a strategist, Hon. Imaan Sulaiman-Ibrahim, the Federal Commissioner, National Commission for Refugees, Migrants and Internally Displaced Persons (NCFRMI), is faced with the daunting task of catering for the millions of internally displaced persons across the nation. The NCFRMI is the front-line humanitarian federal government agency saddled with the responsibilities to provide protection and support for Persons of Concern (IDPs, migrants, Refugees, Stateless Persons and Returnees). Her dignified calmness and composure, as well as intrepidness at which she gets tasks done has placed her at a vantage position and has justified the premium placed on her by President Muhammadu Buhari. Demonstrating Capacity Under the administration of President Buhari, women appointed to head ministries and agencies have demonstrated capacities and have shone like stars in the firmament. Sulaiman-Ibrahim is no exception as she has emerged as an administrator and strategist in public service and in the political space. The faith and trust placed on her by President Muhammadu Buhari and few others who believed in her capacity to deliver on any national assignments assigned to her is becoming manifestly justifiable with her growing records, first as the Director-General of National Agency for the Prohibition Of Trafficking In Persons (NAPTIP) and currently as the Federal Commissioner, NCFRMI. It is also worth mentioning the vibrant role she played in the just concluded two-day progressive women national conference of the All Progressives Congress (APC) as Contacts and Mobilisation Chairperson that saw the coming together of over 5,000 women from across the 36 states and the FCT alongside her team, an event which has been rated as first of its kind women political gathering in recent times. Perhaps Nigeria’s Vice President; Professor Yemi Osinbajo had her and other of her kind in mind when he stated that “ensuring the education of women and empowering them is an existential issue for Nigeria and the rest of Africa”, otherwise holding women down means holding their societies down. At the age of 21, Hon Imaan bagged two master’s degrees from Webster University in the United Kingdom and has relentlessly continued in her quest for excellence and self-development in different sectors as entrepreneur and an administrator, but would modestly not talk about her achievements or brag about them. Achievements as DG NAPTIP Hon. Imaan was appointed DG OF NAPTIP between December 2020 and June 2021 but the successes she recorded within the six months are a testimony to the fact that she was prepared for the tasks as proven by statistics from the agency. Cases investigated in NAPTIP include 383. A breakdown of those figures revealed that the number of suspects arrested were 264; victims rescued, 429; victims reunited, 462; number of convictions, 21; number of cases pending in court, 181; number of high-profile cases at the headquarters under investigation, six; and about 2,422 Nigerians repatriated from countries like Libya, Ghana, UAE, Mali, Niger, Saudi, Iraq and many others. The agency also secured over 120 slots for Basic Intelligence and Law Enforcement Training on pro-bono basis for staff from Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA), among others. Prior to her assumption of office as DG, the agency operated three regional directorates in North, South-west and South-south. Under her leadership, for better efficiency, the agency expanded its coverage to six regional directorates, with each headed by a regional director and an assistant regional director. The list of her exploits at NAPTIP are immeasurable. Structure at Refugees/Migrant Commission As the front-line humanitarian federal government agency saddled with the responsibilities to provide protection and support for Persons of Concern (IDPs, migrants, Refugees, Stateless Persons and Returnees), the Commission has made progress and strengthened its national response in many areas. In strengthening internal structure upon her resumption on June 4, 2021, she worked towards ensuring a well-structured organisation, a motivated and empowered workforce. This, she has achieved and still achieving through training of staff: first batch capacity development for over 70 staff, with second batch of 70 staff which will commence soon. Also, there are other professional trainings conducted for officers of the Commission such as IPPIS for account staff as well as National Data Expo conference and NITDA, e-Governance training for ICT staff, which was the first of its kind. In order to motivate the workforce for optimum commitments, Hon Imaan has looked into an upward salary review for staff. The commission is currently advocating for adequate remunerations and allowances for staff, considering the challenging nature of NCFRMI humanitarian mandate in order to meet up world standards and has also appointed and elevated core NCFRMI staff into key leadership position on acting capacity to give room for growth. In the few months of her assumption of office, she has developed stronger organogram and organisational structure that addresses operational gaps at the commission, coupled with the development of a strategic framework for the commission. Project Zero Hunger This is an initiative aimed at bringing immediate relief to vulnerable Persons of Concern and their families facing food insecurity. It incorporates a whole of society approach to providing assistance and support to PoCs. The project is also developed to help streamline and enhance the accessibility, distribution and availability of mainly food and non-food items thereby eliminating waste and duplication of efforts. The Pilot phase is in collaboration with DEPOWA and Nigerian Army. The Commission has launched and piloted the initiative in Abuja, Nasarawa, Kaduna, Wase in Plateau, Ikorodu in Lagos and Borno States. Currently, there are plans for Kano and other states in the New Year. IDPs Birth Registration Exercise In order to prevent and reduce the risk of statelessness among the displaced population, the Commission has also partnered the National Identity Management Agency and the National Population Agency in the capturing and profiling of Persons of Concern in order to provide them with identification that will allow them access necessary services such as health and financial services. Project Resettlement City The NCFRMI has committed to the rehabilitation, reintegration and resettlement of all Persons of Concern. The Commission has commenced the pilot phase of the Resettlement City Project which entails building resettlement cities that targeted an initial four states of Borno, Katsina, Edo and Zamfara, each city with 400 houses, a primary healthcare centre, educational learning centre, skills acquisition centre, recreational area and a solar powered borehole. Project Reliance This is a comprehensive empowerment programme geared towards making refugees, migrants and displaced persons sustainably self-reliant by helping them with startup capitals and starter packs in various trades and businesses of their choice. The Commission is partnering the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to re-launch and expand this project to capture more Persons of Concern. The commission has also conducted needs assessments and Food & Non-Food Items distribution: Needs assessment were conducted in Kebbi, Lagos, Ebonyi, Imo, Enugu, Niger, Kwara, Nasarawa, Cross River, Borno, Katsina, Zamfara, Bauchi and Rivers states. The assessment activities of other states are currently ongoing. And towards ensuring good health for these vulnerable ones, Hon Imaan Sulaiman has partnered the National Primary Health Care Development Agency (NPHCDA) to roll out COVID-19 Vaccines to all Persons of Concern. The Honourable Federal Commissioner also took over as Chairperson, Technical Working Group (TWG) for the voluntary repatriation of Nigerians from Chad, Niger and Cameroon from the Honourable Minister, Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management, and Social Development. The TWG was convened in compliance with the presidential directive and was setup for the voluntary repatriation of Nigerians from Chad, Cameroon and Niger Republics. It has also begun the development and review of draft standard operating procedure for the identification of combatants among Cameroonian refugees and asylum seekers in Nigeria. Review of Migrants Policy For the Commissioner, the country’s migration policy is at the verge of being reviewed. Underscoring the importance of the review, she stated that migrants are a remarkable engine for growth as they account for more than 250 million around the world, which make up three per cent of global population and contribute 10 per cent of global gross domestic product. According to her, Nigeria remains a country of origin, a country of transit and a country of destination, hence, the country is not against migration but posited that Nigeria is in dire need of a migration policy that works for everybody. To this end, she added that the team from her agency and that of the Foreign Affairs would be in South Africa, to meet with other global stakeholders aimed at discussing how to strengthen labour migration policies. She added that the last review was done in 2015 and NCFRMI being the lead agency for migration for government, “we are the custodians of the migration policy. It is about to undergo a review. “The first joint Migration Dialogue with the Civil Society Day was conducted in collaboration with the CSONetMADE and IOM. “This is in recognition of the role being played by the civil society organisation as key stakeholders in migration management at an event that was well-attended with discussion centered on areas to strengthen the migration policy which has an Implementation plan and a work plan.” Given that there are no singular solution to any one humanitarian crisis as its primary causes are intertwined with several other factors, Hon. Sulaiman-Ibrahim is not resting on her oars in ensuring that Persons of Concern are adequately catered for despite their extenuating circumstances. Quotes “As the front-line humanitarian federal government agency saddled with the responsibilities to provide protection and support for Persons of Concern (IDPs, migrants, Refugees, Stateless Persons and Returnees), the Commission has made progress and strengthened its national response in many areas” “Project Reliance is a comprehensive empowerment programme geared towards making refugees, migrants and displaced persons sustainably self-reliant by helping them with startup capitals and starter packs in various trades and businesses of their choice”