Udora Orizu The House of Representatives has mandated its Committee on Healthcare Services to investigate the activities of the COVID-19 Vaccination Units especially as it relates to their records of
vaccinations to ensure that such records are duly kept in the approved database, issuance of fake vaccination cards, the funds spent on maintaining a National Database and the inability of key government agencies to have real-time access to the COVID-19 vaccination database. The House urged the Federal Government to overhaul the operations of the Port Health Services and equip it to a world class standard. The Red Chamber further urged the National Primary Health Care Development Agency to work towards creating the required synergy between its vaccine operations and the Port Health Services to ensure online real-time access to vaccination records of travelers from the database provided for such purpose. The resolutions were sequel to the adoption of a motion on the need to ‘Investigate the COVID-19 Vaccine Data Base of Travellers,’ sponsored by Hon. Obinna Chidoka (PDP, Anambra). Moving the motion, Chidoka noted that it was a precondition for foreign travels to most countries that intending travelers must present their vaccination cards showing evidence of Covid-19 vaccination before such trips. He also noted that records of COVID vaccination administered by the various units nationwide are expected to be uploaded in a database which can be accessed by the COVID-19 units at the various entry and exit points in
Nigeria, particularly at the international airports. He expressed concerns that the Ports Health Services at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja, which has the primary responsibility of checking the vaccine and health status of travelers, do not have efficient synergy with the National Primary Health Care Development Agency that takes care of the Covid-19 Vaccine mandate. This, according to the lawmaker, creates embarrassing bottlenecks for travelers on a daily basis. He said, “Also concerned that the National Primary Health Development Agency, with all the resources at its disposal, cannot maintain effective and efficient handling of its database such that its website collapses frequently, rendering it mostly inaccessible. Worried that the National Primary Health Care Development Agency, which is in charge of COVID-19 the vaccination database, has become a service provider for the airline business, and does not have a dedicated Call Centre for resolving travelers’ COVID-19 related inquiries. “Also worried that the working environment of the Ports Health Services is shabby and grossly equipped; Determined to address the poor working environment of Port Health Services at the Airports and improve synergy
between the National Primary Health Care Development Agency, COVID-19 Vaccination Units nationwide, and
the Ports Health Services.” Adopting the motion, the House gave the Committee four weeks to carryout the investigation and report back for further legislative action.