As part of its mission to meet consumer demands, Nestlé Nigeria has launched the NESCAFÉ Malty, a new blend of coffee and malt in the “NESCAFÉ 3in1” coffee options to enhance the quality of life of everyone. Speaking at the launch in Lagos, the Managing Director of Nestlé Nigeria PLC, Wassim Elhusseini, said they are focused on unlocking the power of food to enhance the quality of life for everyone today and for generations to come. “We, therefore, continuously provide distinctive food innovations fueled by creative exploration and consumer insights. It is based on this insight that NESCAFÉ Malty 3in1 was developed with the Nigerian consumer in mind, bringing together the goodness of malt with the rich flavour of Nescafé that we enjoy at an affordable price,” he emphasised. On innovation of the new product, the Category Manager for NESCAFÉ in Nigeria, Mr. Gbenga Alabi, expressed, “NESCAFÉ is proud to launch this new 3in1 with malt. He noted that the innovation is a result of years of dedicated research to find the perfect blend of coffee, creamer, sugar, and malt that constitutes a rich cup of coffee. Each 25g serving of the new NESCAFÉ Malty 3in1 is formulated to provide the thrill to “Start Strong, Finish Strong”. It is said  to offer a great tasting stimulation that sets you up for the day when you need to start with the best version of oneself. The global food and beverage company says with this new addition, the Nestlé Nigeria NESCAFÉ range now includes three variants: the NESCAFÉ Classic, NESCAFÉ Original 3in1, and the new NESCAFÉ Malty 3in1. NESCAFÉ is a flagship brand of the largest food and beverage company in the world – Nestlé. The beverage was invented by Nestlé in the 1930sto deliver rich, bold flavor in an instant. The innovation also helped farmers reduce labour and post-harvest crop waste, which was a huge agricultural challenge at the time. Helping farmers is something that Nestlé is still passionate about today, across the globe. Alabi further hinted that billions of coffee cups are consumed daily because they contain beneficial nutrients, including riboflavin (vitamin B-2), niacin (vitamin B-3), magnesium, potassium, and various phenolic compounds, or antioxidants – known to be healthy and beneficial in preventing diseases.