With few days to the second edition of the annual Sportsville Award, Sports Minister, Hon Sunday Dare and other awardees have said that they are warming up for the event with excitement. Hon Dare while accepting the award said the management of Sportsville has done well by chosing to bestow honour to whom it is due. Dare assured the organisers that he would be in Lagos personally to receive the award. ” I am excited to be part of this award. Sportsville has been one of the most credible and objective sports programme on air. The award coming from its stable is one to cherish,” added Hon Dare who sent representatives to the maiden edition last year. The CEO of Channels TV, John Momoh, was also full of praise for Sportsville declaring the annual award as one that would help the development of Nigerian sports. Momoh, who is being honoured for the positive impact the Annual Channels Kiddies Cup Tournament has had on Nigeria Football, promised to grace the occasion in person. ” I look forward to honour the award,” says the soft spoken ex broadcaster who runs the award winning Channels Television. For Dr. Danladi Bako, the award is a refreshing one in the array of awards he has gained over the years. He promised to be in Lagos despite his very tight and busy schedule out there in Sokoto where he is a key member of the Sultan’s cabinet. Bako, a veteran broadcaster and former Director General of the Nigerian Broadcasting Commission (NBC) said…”gentlemen, be rest assured I will be in Lagos for the award. Sportsville has done well in the promotion and development of our sports and this is one honour I am excited about,” Dr Bako, fondly called the Grand Master, added. Other sports dignitaries to receive awards that day include; Dr Sunny Ojeagbase, Chief Segun Odegbami, Olumide Oyedeji, Mike Itemuagbor and Ugo Udezue. Others are; Hon Bukola Olopade, Barr Seyi Akinwumi, Hon Ayo Omidiran, Daniel Igali and Delta State Sports Commission boss, Tonobok Okowa. The Sportsville Special Recognition Award comes up on Sunday, February 13 at the prestigious Radisson Hotel, GRA, Ikeja.