Human Resources Advisor, certified identity and communication Coach, and Founder of Red Instinxts, Stephanie Kadiri, also known as StephREDD, is set to host the third edition of her highly acclaimed full-day summit, the UR³ (Unveil, Review, Redefine and Relaunch) conference. The conference, which is billed for February 25, 2022, is aimed to infuse in participants the resilience required to navigate physical, emotional, and socio-economic challenges. With the theme: ‘Onward and Forward’, the hybrid event is expected to draw a global audience with a distinguished array of world-class speakers coming together to equip participants with the right mindset to progressively navigate life’s various seasons and commit to creating the future that they desire. Some of the other confirmed speakers for the event are the President/CEO of IDI US Inc, Dr. Eric Zackrison; Developmental Psychologist and Life Coach, Dr. Ruth Goma; President, SOBCAonline, Sam Obafemi; CHO of Graeme Blaque Advisory, Zeal Akaraiwe; Director of Being Human Group, Magriet Mouton, and Mental Performance Coach and CEO of WINBOX, Dr. Deji Osasona. According to the organisers, with over 150 years of cumulative experience and expertise, they will be sharing practical insights respectively on topics covering Critical Thinking, Therapy, Business and Financial Intelligence, Wealth Creation and Mental Health, adding that the venue for the event is physical and online (hybrid), and for free registration, interested participants should visit https://ur3.stephredd.com/. The Convener of the UR³ Conference, Stephanie Kadiri ‘StephREDD, said: “For this 3rd edition, the UR³ conference will be a hybrid. We’re welcoming participants from all parts of the world to instruct, empower and liberate as many as possible from the shackles of trauma and depression so that they can progressively reinvent themselves and thrive because we recognise that adversity is not limited to race, colour, region or nationality.” Speaking on what attendees will gain at this year’s conference, StephREDD revealed that UR³ is an avenue to instruct and empower conference attendees while speaking directly to real-life issues in a way that will help them to better navigate challenges in their personal and professional lives which will consequently affect personal, organisational and societal productivity. Participants will also have access to confidential therapy and coaching sessions with professional coaches and therapists as there will be live coaching and therapy booths for registered attendees. Participants can register for free at https://ur3.stephredd.com/ to attend.