This poser is prompted by the continuing application of the Criminal Code Act as a federal law across the country, in spite of what I believe to be its clearly anomalous status vis-à-vis relevant constitutional provisions. In other words, the question is: why is the Criminal Code Act still extant? Haven’t virtually all the 17 States of Southern Nigeria (where it was originally applicable) enacted their own Criminal Code laws? Why does the original Act retain its place in current Laws of the Federation (which contain all statutes enacted or deemed to be enacted by the National Assembly)?. Does the Code still possess the force/status of an Act of the National Assembly? Is it’s subject matter within the legislative competence of that body?. Beyond these, however, the question is equally pertinent because of increasing number of defendants who have prosecuted (and who may be prosecuted) in the FCT, at the behest of the Attorney-General of the Federation, allegedly for contravening provisions of the Act. This is worrisome because of its constitutional implications. The legal status of the Criminal Code Act within the FCT should, therefore, be closely scrutinised in the interest of fair hearing and constitutional supremacy. This is because, any conviction which is based on an unconstitutional law, is ultra vires, invalid, null and void. We shall attempt to do that anon, but, first first, a quick . . . History of the Criminal Code Act The Criminal Code has had a long and chequered history. Its commencement date is the 1st day of June, 1916 – no less! – when Nigeria was very much a British Colony. From that time, till shortly before independence, it was applied across the country – until the 26th day of September, 1959, when it was replaced in the old Northern Region, by the Penal Code Law. Since then, the Criminal Code has survived (in its various local and State-wide iterations) as the primary criminal law applicable across Southern Nigeria. Virtually all the Southern States have their own locally-enacted Criminal
Code Laws or Criminal Laws simpliciter. The Position Under the 1999 Constitution. Given the peculiar history of the Criminal Code Act and Laws as aforesaid, the current Constitution has made copious provisions which impinge on its validity – as well as those of similar laws. Those provisions are set out in Section 315 of the Constitution which describes statutes which ante-date the Constitution as “existing laws”. Section 315(4)(b) of the Constitution defines them as “any law and includes any rule of law or any enactment or instrument whatsoever which is in force immediately before the date when this section comes into force or which, having been passed or made before that date, comes into force after that date”. Section 315(1) of the Constitution sets out he litmus test for determining the validity of any existing law. It provides thus: “Subject to the provisions of this Constitution, an existing law shall have effect with such modifications as may be necessary to bring it into conformity with the provisions of this Constitution and shall be deemed to be:- (a) An Act of the National Assembly to the extent that it is a law with respect to any matter on which the National Assembly is empowered by this Constitution to make laws, and (b) A Law made by a House of Assembly to the extent that it is a law with respect to any matter on which a House of Assembly is empowered by this Constitution to make laws”. The Constitution divides legislative power between the National and State Houses of Assembly – vide Section 4 thereof. The respective remits of both Legislatures are specifically expressed and defined in the Exclusive Legislative and the Concurrent Legislative Lists. Whilst the former is the sole preserve of the National Assembly, both Assemblies share legislative power in respective of the latter. There is however, a notional third list – the Residual Legislative List – in respect of which only State Houses of Assembly are competent to legislate upon: MINISTER OF JUSTICE & ATT-GEN. OF THE FED. v ATT-GEN. OF LAGOS (2013) All FWLR pt.704 pg.1@40. It is settled that, beyond criminal offences which might arise incidentally from a law enacted by the National Assembly pursuant to a specific subject matter contained in the Exclusive Legislative List of the Constitution, that Assembly is incompetent to enact a general criminal law applicable across Nigeria; See Item 68 of the Exclusive Legislative List and Paragraph 2(b) of Part III of the 2nd Schedule to the Constitution and BODE GEORGE v FRN (2014) All FWLR pt. 718, pg. 879. The question, therefore, is: in which of these Lists is the subject matter of the Criminal Code Act contained? Is it in the Exclusive List, the Concurrent List or the Residual List of the Constitution? To this question, there does not appear to be a simple and straightforward answer. This because, the Criminal Code Act is a hybrid statute of sorts, consisting, as it does, of matters in both Exclusive and Residual Legislative Lists of the Constitution. The former pertain to Federal offences or Offences against the State , whist the latter are non-federal. I humbly submit that – apart from those provisions of the Code which deal with offences arising from matters contained in the Exclusive Legislative List of the Constitution, (i.e., Sections 37, 41, 44, 45, 48, 78, 79, 86, 161-189, 190A, 396, 491-493, 500-504, 449, 451, 453, 459, 459A, 459B, 460) – the rest of its provisions (which, by far, are the vast majority) make general prescriptions pertaining to criminal malfeasance. To that extent, I believe that the latter are beyond the remit of the National Assembly under the current Constitution. In other words, the non-federal subject matter of the Criminal Code Act is in the Residual Legislative List of the Constitution, in respect of which only State Houses of Assembly are competent to legislate as aforesaid; See TOGUN v OPUTA (No.2) (2001) 16 NWLR pt. 740 pg. 597. So, what is the Status – and Fate – of the CCA? To the extent that the non-federal provisions of the Criminal Code Act cannot take effect as an Act of the National Assembly, but, rather, as a law made by a State House of Assembly, they do not apply in any of the 36 States of the Federation. In other words, subject to the existence of any other statute which might impinge on its validity, the Criminal Code Act, in the form in which it appears in the Laws of the Federation 2004 and 2010 would ordinarily be applicable only in the FCT, Abuja. This is by virtue of the provisions of Section 299 of the Constitution which invests the National Assembly with the status of the Legislature of the FCT. The aforesaid qualification is, however, all-important, given the provisions of Section 13 and the 2nd Schedule to the Federal Capital Territory Act, 1984, which lists the Laws applicable in the FCT, Abuja. Given the importance of this provision, in my view, it is essential to set it out, verbatim, as follows: “In addition to any law having effect, or made applicable throughout the Federation, the laws set out in the Second Schedule to this Act shall, as from 9th May, 1984, apply in the Federal Capital Territory”. Crucially, the Criminal Code Act is not contained in that List; it is completely omitted. This is hardly surprising, as the Criminal Code Act has – at least, from the time of Nigeria’s political independence in 1960 till date – always been a regional law. This factor obviously rules it out for consideration as one of the laws applicable across Nigeria within the contemplation of Section 13 of the FCT Act. By contrast, the Penal Code Law is specifically listed therein (it is Item 22 in the 2nd Schedule to the Act) as the general criminal law applicable in Abuja and enforceable in its courts. It is obvious that the implication of this exclusion of the Criminal Code Act from the list of the laws applicable in the FCT is that it is deliberate; in other words, expressio unius est exclusio alterius (the express mention of one thing in a statute, implies the exclusion of others which, otherwise, would have been included). Accordingly, the only possible conclusion is that the Criminal Code Act is no longer applicable in the FCT. I believe this is all the more so, because the Constitution – which would have been decisive on the issue – does not expressly provide for the applicability of the Criminal Code by any court except the National Industrial Court. See Section 254F(2) of the Constitution. The only other instance where the Constitution recognises (albeit tangentially or by inference) the provisions of the Code is in relation to the jurisdiction of the Federal High Court over treason, treasonable felony and similar offences – in Section 251(2) thereof. This is because, those offences (tagged “Offences Against the State”) are provided for by Sections 37, 41, 44, 45 and 48 of the Criminal Code Act. However, of even greater concern, in my view, are other provisions – such as those of Section 7(3) of the Federal High Court Act, 1973 – which stipulate that the jurisdiction conferred by that Act on the Federal High Court in respect criminal causes and matters “shall include original jurisdiction in respect of the offences under the provisions of the Criminal Code Act being offences in relation to which proceedings may be initiated at the instance of the Attorney-General of the Federation”. It is obvious that, if the Criminal Code Act is inapplicable in Abuja, it would be a travesty for the Attorney-General of the Federation to prosecute a person at the Federal High Court, Abuja allegedly for violating a provision of the Criminal Code Act. Conclusion The status of the Criminal Code Act within the FCT is yet another instance of the niggling anomalies which continue to dog our laws. This one is particularly galling, in my view, because of its implications on fair trials under our constitutional order. Needless to say, the earlier it is corrected the better, because the Attorney-General of the Federation – as the Chief Law Officer of the Federation – can ill-afford to be seen as subverting the Constitution by exercising a power which he lacks vis-à-vis criminal offences within the FCT. To the extent that it is the Penal Code Law – rather than the Criminal Code Act – which is applicable in Abuja, I believe the AGF ought not to prosecute any person in the FCT for allegedly contravening the Criminal Code Act in any part of Nigeria. Rather, such a person should be tried in any of the States where the Criminal Code is applicable. Suffice it to say that, except pursuant to the Penal Code (Northern Region) Federal Provisions Act, 1960 (which are but Sections 410 – 477 of the Penal Code Law), no person should be tried in the FCT for allegedly conduct which would constitute an offence or offences under the Criminal Code Act.