The final lap of the 2021/2022 Nigeria Women Football League Premiership season will resume on Wednesday, February 23, 2022in all designated venues across the country after a two-week mid-season break. Going into the break, Group A table of the NWFL Premiership had former champions, Nasarawa Amazons topped with 15 points after playing six matches. They overtook Edo Queens of Benin on the last day with just one point. While Group B had Rivers Angels of Port Harcourt as leaders with 13 points, after overtaking Bayelsa Queens on 11 points on the last day of the first stanza. The resumption of the NWFL Premiership will open a straight battle for the three teams per group that will pick the top positions for the NWFL Premiership Super Six, the super league competition that would determine the eventual champions. The league winners would also represent Nigeria in the second edition of the CAF Women’s Champions League. Nigeria was represented by last seasons’ champions, Rivers Angels of Port Harcourt. The battle for the Super Six started from the first kick of the season as all the 14 clubs started showing determination to emerge one of the six clubs for the Super Six. In Group A, the top four clubs; Nasarawa Amazons, Edo Queens, Naija Ratels and Confluence Queens are already contenders for the top three positions. The star match in this group in the league restart will be the one between Confluence Queens and Nasarawa Amazons. While in Group B, it’s going to be a straight battle among the top four clubs; Rivers Angels, Bayelsa Queens, Delta Queens and FC Robo for the three slots from the group. One of these four must drop to give way for the three that will go to the Super Six. Group B star match in the league resumption is the game between FC Robo versus Royal Queens. This will be FC Robo’s last game at the banished home, the Dipo Dina International Stadium, Ijebu-Ode. The battles to decide the top three teams for the Super Six starts on February 23in Group B. In the mid-season transfers in the NWFL Premiership, a total of 44 players moved from one club to another, with Abia Angels having the biggest movements of 9 players. These included top striker Nkechi Agams returning to Abia Angels from Bayelsa Queens and Esther Kanu leaving Delta Queens to Abia Angels. While, last season’s highest goal scorer, Monday Gift officially returned to FC Robo of Lagos from Rivers Angels of Port Harcourt. In all, Adamawa Queens had six transfers, Delta Queens five, Pelican Stars of Calabar four and Rivers Angels five. To ensure effective, efficient and professional coverage and excellent management of the NWFL Premiership season by the clubs, the Aisha Falode-led NWFL board organised seminars and trainings for the 14 Club Media and Communications Officers, as well as for the 14 Club Managers. Falode, said at the end of the seminars and trainings that the outcome of the events will go a long way in reshaping the professional attitude of those that participated in the events while doing their jobs. The seminar and trainings took place at the Eko Hotel & Suites, Victoria Island.