THE ALTERNATIVE By Reno Omokri The unravelling of Abba Kyari was bound to happen. It was cower if you paid attention to the happenings in the Buhari administration. And DCP Abba Kyari is only a beginning. There will be more unravellings. How do I mean? First of all, there is no ethnic or religious balance in Nigeria’s law enforcement agencies, and that is why someone like DCP Abba Kyari could become a super-cop. His ethnicity blinded his superiors to obvious tells that would have exposed his double life. By this I mean his houses, the houses of his siblings, the cars he owns, the wealth and connections that he flaunts on social media. It all does not gel with the image of a supercop. And they would have been obvious if Abba Kyari had a name like Abel Aakachukwu. But because he is from where he is from, and has the right ethno/religious balance, these red flags were overlooked. The Chief Justice of Nigeria, Attorney General and Minister for Justice, the Inspector General of Police, the Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency Chairman, are all Northern Muslim males. Where is the balance? How is that possible in a multi-ethnic nation? Again, I maintain that nepotism and tribalism made Kyari a supercop! And do not be deceived. There are other undiscovered Kyari’s in the system. We were all made to believe that Abba Kyari was being punished and that he was under suspension, while being investigated. But that was a lie. And that lie was only possible because of the old boy network in Nigeria’s law enforcement system, which is even more imbalanced than our military. Exactly two weeks to the day he was declared wanted by the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency, Abba Kyari was a guest of the Inspector General of Police, Alkali Baba, during his son’s wedding. This is a man that was meant to be under suspension. It is not only Abba Kyari that should be answering questions. Even the IGP has very serious questions to answer. If Buhari had any shame, by now the IGP would have been out of the job. I released a photo of Obasanjo’s then Inspector General of Police, Tafa Balogun, in handcuffs, and in court to face charges of corruption. That is how to fight corruption. Not hosting a known criminal cop at the wedding of your IGP! Kyari and Inspector-General of Police, Alkali Baba, are like Siamese twins. If one is dirty, then the other should be subject to a very thorough review. At the risk of repeating myself, I remind my readers that as of January 30, when DCP Abba Kyari attended IGP Alkali Baba’s son’s wedding, Kyari was already a known criminal. Consorting with known criminals is already a breach of the IGP’s oath of office. If Buhari knows his own job, IGP Baba should not have a job by now! But you and I know that that is not going to happen under Buhari. In fact, the IGP is more likely to be rewarded for giving a member of the favoured 97% (remember Buhari’s boast at the United States Institute for Peace?) a soft landing. The same soft landing that was given to Babachir Lawal, Nasir Danu, Danjuma Goje, Aisha Buhari’s ADC, and the true owners of the Ikoyi Apartment Billions. In fact, I hope this current arrest of DCP Abba Kyari and this whole NDLEA thing is not an attempt to prevent him from being extradited to the United States to face his crimes there. I call on journalists to confirm this arrest, and make sure Kyari is not having fun with the big boys! After all, he was doing just that two weeks ago at the IGP’s son’s wedding. Why the secrecy over this arrest? Nigerian Police Force should parade Abba Kyari the way they parade others who have committed lesser crimes. We all saw how the Buhari government paraded a political prisoner like Nnamdi Kanu in handcuffs. Let us see the criminal, Abba Kyari, like that too. And since Abba Kyari is a fashion consultant, they must force him to wear designers as they did to Kanu! Yes, I call Kyari a criminal. But how much better is the government? A Buhari government that imports and sells adulterated fuel to its own people. A supercop in cahoots with drug dealers and fraudsters. An army that kills unarmed, peaceful, patriotic #EndSARS protesters. A President that surrounds himself with only people of his own tribe and religion. A First Lady involved in a shootout at Aso Rock, with the President’s nephew. What I have described above is not a Netflix or Zee world movie. This is Nigeria since 2015. Buhari is not running a government. He is running a corrupt criminal enterprise! After saying fuel subsidy under former President Goodluck Jonathan was a scam, Buhari is now paying six times the subsidy President Jonathan paid. Have the cars in Nigeria multiplied by seven? N2.7 trillion for subsidy in one year? Buhari should apologise to Jonathan and accept that he is a munafiq and 419er who deceived Nigerians. And after eight disastrous locust years of Buhari, they want to bring a Tinubu, who mocked those patriotic #EndSARS protesters that Buhari killed during the #LekkiMassacre, as President, and you as a true Nigerian will accept it? Tufiakwa! If you will, I will NEVER accept it! And that is why Nigerians must think twice before making the same mistake of 2015 in 2023. That Buhari wannabe named Bola Tinubu is waiting in the wings to continue the underdevelopment of Nigeria that the president started. Do we want another President that has to run to London every three weeks to be patched by London doctors so he does not urinate in public? The only reason Buhari has not dared return to London for treatment is because of #HarassTinubuOutofLondon. But if Nigeria should make the mistake of electing a to le, Bola Tinubu, as President in 2023, I will just focus on my beautiful wife and leave Nigerians to endure him. Let us face facts. Look at the state of Tinubu’s teeth. Look at the state of his urine-soaked agbada. How can a man with such poor personal hygiene be entrusted with the fate of 200 million Nigerians? An a to le will be our President? Nitori kini? She won sh’epe fu wa? Reno’s Nuggets Abortion is a sin, according to Scripture. It is the taking of human life. Exodus 21:22-23 plainly describes an unborn foetus as a human life and that any man who causes a pregnant woman to lose her foetus is guilty of murder. Ordinarily, I would not want to comment on this, but I have been bombarded by people whose faiths are being undermined. The only time I ever publicly disagree with a pastor is when people’s faith is undermined. Abortion is not compatible with Christ following. That is why I teach against premarital and extramarital sex. But if you have done it and get pregnant, don’t turn one weakness into two wickednesses! Abortion is even worse than murder. Because most murderers murder someone who they feel has wronged them. While that is not exculpatory, we can see how that can be a human weakness. But why kill an unborn foetus that has not offended you or anyone? Premarital and extramarital sex is sinful and wrong. However, if you want to have premarital sex, or even marital sex, without getting pregnant, using protection is better than abortion later. But that protection must not be for the purpose of avoiding your responsibility-Genesis 38:9-10. Even rape should not lead to abortion. At worst, have the child and have him or her adopted. But abortion and Christ following are Parallel lines that will NEVER intersect! Being a Christ follower is not easy. You must commit to adjusting your life to suit Scripture, even Scripture that you do not like (yes, there are Scriptures I do not like). That is better than adjusting Scripture to suit your lifestyle. #TableShaker