Laleye Dipo in Minna Following the explosion that recently killed four operatives of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) in Galadima Kogo and surrounding villages in the Shiroro Local Government Area of Niger State, the Concerned Shiroro Youths has called for the deployment of anti-bomb experts to the area, saying there may be more Improvised Explosive Devices IEDs still buried around the affected communities. The four operatives were killed when their operational vehicle drove on the planted explosive devices leading to an explosion that not only damaged the vehicle but also seriously injured six other men in the van. The incident happened last Monday. Another bomb blast was reported yesterday in Galadima Kogo town in Shiroro Local Government Area of Niger State.
The Concerned Shiroro Youths, an umbrella organisation in the forefront of projecting the negative effect of insurgency in the local government area, insisted that more of the devices that killed the NSCDC officials were still buried in the ground across Galadima Kogo and other villages becoming threat to lives of the villagers. A statement jointly signed by the Co- Conveners of the Youths, Comrade Yussuf Abubakar Kokki and Bello Ibrahim, drew the attention of both the Niger State and federal governments to the development and asked for the immediate deployment of anti bomb experts to the community. “Given the ugly development, the Concerned Shiroro Youths of Niger State implores the government to be more proactive by deploying experts to the embattled areas to diffuse IEDs that might still be beneath the ground. This step if taken will undoubtedly go a long way in forestalling possible tragedies,” the statement said. In addition, the group wanted the “troubled areas, particularly Galadima Kogo, to be manned by anti-bomb experts to effectively comb the war-torn Galadima Kogo and environs. “There is every reason to suspect that IEDs already planted are still lying fallow and only waiting for time to explode. At the moment, the entire town is no longer ordinarily habitable, hence the need for urgent government intervention,” the statement warned.
The group also appealed to the Niger State Government “to immediately mobilise as well as direct its relevant agencies to move into the affected areas and ascertain the level of destructions recorded during the deadly invasion,” adding that victims of the attack “should be profiled, take inventory of losses (both human and material) incurred and thereafter galvanise and devise possible support and assistance to be given to the affected victims.” They submitted that if such action was taken “It will go a long way to cushion the effects of this unfortunate man-made disaster.” The group noted that the latest development and continuous attack of the communities “has further frustrated locals who are already impoverished,” adding that “Government should act swiftly to resuscitate the affected victims to live.” On the bomb explosion that happened yesterday, a statement by the Co-Convener of the Concerned Shiroro Youths, Comrade Kokki, said the explosion took place on Friday evening. The statement titled: ‘Bomb Explosion At Galadima Koko Again’ said that “What is believed to be Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs) just now got exploded at Galadima Kogo, Shiroro Local Government Area, Niger State. “This is coming few days after first ever bomb blast occurred at the same Galadima Kogo, to be precise; on Monday this week. “Casualty figure could not be ascertained at the moment as the affected areas are not yet accessible due to fear of further possible explosions. Though preliminary reports are not, however suggestive of any loss.” THISDAY findings however showed that a vehicle loaded with tubers of yam passed over a buried IED which exploded but the driver and other passengers in the vehicle escaped unhurt. When contacted the Secretary to the State Government Alhaji Ahmed Ibrahim Matane, said the government was not aware of the incident. Matane, however, promised “to check and get back to you.” Calls made to the State Police Command Public Relations Officer, DSP Wasiu Abiodun, were not responded to. Galadima Kogo and neighbouring villages in Shiroro Local Government Area of the state has been the epicentre of bandit attacks with many casualties already recorded and resulting in mass exodus from the area to safer grounds.