Emmanuel Addeh President Muhammadu Buhari will on Thursday inaugurate the recently energised Lafia 2X150 MVA and 2X60 /132/33/330 KV transmission substation completed by the Niger Delta Power Holding Company Limited (NDPHC). A statement by the company’s Head of Communication and Public Relations, Mr Emmanuel Ojor, quoted the Nasarawa State Governor, Mr. Abdullahi Sule as sayi that there are jubilations across the state over planned inauguration by the president. Speaking during a pre-commissioning inspection to the substation by the Executive Director, Networks, NDPHC Limited, Mr. IfeOluwa Oyedele and his team, Sule, who was represented by his Deputy, Dr. Emmanuel Akabe said that the state and its environs will be greatly impacted by the project. “We know that electricity is life and you need energy in any society for so many things, particularly for economic growth. So, we are not taking this project for granted. “Gone are the days when Lafia will be in darkness for more than one week at a stretch and when there is, it won’t be brighter than a candlelight,” the governor added. He noted that with the new development, the economy of Nasarawa state will improve while small, medium, and micro enterprises will all thrive because they need energy. “Imagine how much it costs the small barber, the lady running a beauty salon having to use generator to run their business and now they have electricity,” he added. Earlier, Oyedele said that although the National Integrated Power Projects (NIPP), Lafia substation was funded by the federation, it was important to emphasise the contributions of the state government. “On the day that we came to take over this site, a certificate of occupancy had been issued. In three years, no worker- whether expatriate or local has been harassed- not to talk of being kidnapped or any such thing. “And since the incumbent governor took over, he has assumed the role of project manager. He has visited this site more than 33 times,” he noted. The project will also help to provide back feed to Abuja whenever necessary since FCT is being served from Shiroro and Geregu power stations, it added.