In recognition of his excellent jobs, professional victory and uncommon achievements in Nigeria’s private sector, Marketing Edge, Nigeria’s leading brand and marketing publication, has bestowed Dr. Akin Ogunbiyi with the prestigious Corporate Pacesetter honour at the maiden edition of its prestigious Marketing Edge Hall of Fame induction ceremony. The Hall of Fame honour was conferred on Ogunbiyi during a glittering function, which was held within the adorable ambience of Radisson Hotel, Ikeja, Lagos State. The glamorous event saw the celebration of excellence and professionalism among the who’s who in the Nigerian Integrated Marketing Communications (IMC) ecosystem. More importantly, the celebratory night witnessed the formal unveiling of a special edition publication of the Marketing Edge magazine, which features on its front cover Ogunbiyi, a corporate guru of no mean repute. As usual, the edition is spiced up with a pot-pourri of juicy offerings on news and incisive industry reviews as well as deep market insights. Presenting the esteemed award to Ogunbiyi as the pioneer member of the Marketing Edge Hall of Fame was the amiable Sir Steve Bamidele Omojafor, a leading light in the integrated marketing communications sector, whose name is synonymous with the IMC industry in Nigeria. The glamorous event welcomed Ogunbiyi as the first member in the corporate category, one of the highest honours the Marketing Edge brand bestows on exceptional individuals. The Osun State born entrepreneur and governorship aspirant is the Group Chairman of Mutual Benefits Assurance PLC, a conglomerate of nine subsidiaries and over 5,000 employees. The Nigerian businessman and politician also sits as the Chief Executive Officer and Associate Director at Finance & Insurance Experts Ltd. He is also on the board of Infrastructure Bank Plc and Elephant Group PLC and Associate at Chartered Insurance Institute and Member of Institute of Directors. His conglomerate encompasses insurance firms, oil and gas industry and real estate amongst others. He is a Fellow of the Nigerian Institute of Directors; Fellow West Africa Insurance Institute, Banjul, Gambia and also a Fellow of the Risk Managers Society of Nigeria. Ogunbiyi is a graduate of Agricultural Economics from the University of Ife. He is also an alumnus of the famous International Graduate School of Management, University of Navarra (IESE) Barcelona, Spain where he obtained an Executive Masters in Business Administration. In addition, he is an alumnus of Lagos Business School and Saïd Business School of the University of Oxford where he attended the Oxford Advanced Management & Leadership Programme. With the maiden Hall of Fame, the Marketing Edge Group has formally kicked off a tradition of inducting, honouring and paying homage to legends, accomplished professionals, great industry titans, and gurus who blazed the trail in their various areas of specialisation across generations and epochs. The Marketing Edge Hall of Fame recognises individuals that have made long-lasting and impactful contributions to the growth and stability of the IMC industry and Nigeria’s creative economy. The Hall of Fame epitomises the highest standard of commitment to its tagline of “Promoting the Brand Idea”, its ideals, and its values. Marketing Edge is an avant-garde agenda setting media organisation that has constantly and consistently made innovation the corner-stone of its operation.