The U.S. Consulate and religious leaders recently deepened commitment to support anti-corruption initiatives, promote accountability, transparency, as well as empower reformers. Chiemelie Ezeobi reports that they launched an anti-corruption website, a unique web-based portal that leverages citizen engagement to fight corruption The U.S. government has reiterated its commitment to supporting anti-corruption initiatives and collaborative efforts that prevent graft, strengthen investigation and prosecution of corruption, promote accountability and transparency, and empower reformers. Last Friday, the U.S. Consulate General in collaboration with the Inter-Religious Coalition Against Corruption in Nigeria launched ReportMagoMago.com, a unique web-based portal that leverages citizen engagement to fight corruption. Led by Bishop Emmanuel Gospel Isong and Imam Shefiu Abdulkareem Majemu, the Inter-Religious Coalition Against Corruption in Nigeria was formed in 2016 by Muslim and Christian religious leaders with the primary goal of addressing how faith communities could take a leading role in anti-corruption advocacy in Nigeria. During the event, participants received a guided demonstration of the ReportMagoMago.com platform. In addition, political, traditional and religious leaders, members of law enforcement, judicial officers and civil society representatives renewed their commitment to the fight against corruption. Speaking during the launch of the website in Lagos, U.S. Consul General Claire Pierangelo explained that ReportMagoMago.com puts the power to report corruption in the hands of the Nigerian people. Pierangelo urged Nigerians to demonstrate their commitment to the fight against corruption by making use of the innovative online platform which seeks to address the daily instances of corruption faced by millions of Nigerians. “Countering corruption is not only a key concern in Nigeria but also a core U.S. national security priority for the Biden Administration,” Pierangelo said. “Growth and development, consistent with the richness and strength of Nigeria, depend on a new narrative and a culture where corruption has no place.” Pierangelo expressed optimism that the new initiative will encourage Nigerians affected by corruption to feel empowered to share their experiences and spark a new movement in citizen engagement in fighting the scourge that has hampered development and stifled prosperity in the country. The United States, through a number of agencies, including the U.S. Department of State and U.S. Agency for International Development, takes an all of government approach to fighting corruption, a key component of the United States’ national security strategy. “We work to hold the corrupt accountable through robust diplomatic engagement, by supporting multi-stakeholder initiatives and civil society, through foreign assistance to build stronger partners and transparent, trustworthy institutions.”