Steve Ayah The Punuka Foundation on St. Valentine’s day celebrated the day which also happened to be the birthday of one of its Founders and Managing Partner of Punuka Attorneys & Solicitors, Mrs Elizabeth Idigbe, by visiting children in orphanages and special needs homes. This is an annual event, and this year’s visitation was no exception, as it was a fulfilling outing for both the Punuka Foundation team and the children visited. At Ereko Methodist Special School, Obalende, the Foundation team was welcome by the ever appreciative School Administrator, Mrs Adeniyi Samuel, who expressed the School’s gratitude to Punuka Foundation for remembering them yearly. Responding, the leader of the team and a Partner in Punuka, Mr Nnamdi Oragwu, thanked the School for the wonderful reception given to the team. He further stated that both the Foundation and Mrs Idigbe, will continue to support the School. The highlight of the visit, was the presentation to Master Adeyemi Ayomide who emerged as the best pupil in Lagos State in the year 2021. The team then presented food items. At the National Orthopaedic Special Vocational Centre, Igbobi, some of the special children joined in cutting the Valentine Cake before the presentation of gifts to the School by Punuka’s Director, Law Practice, Mrs Angela Ezenweani. The Head Teacher, Mr Dosunmu Taiwo supported by the Assistant Head Teacher, Oladimeji Abiodun and Senior Teacher, B.R. Azeez, all thanked Mrs Idigbe for her kind donation to them. The delegation proceeded to Modupe Cole Memorial Child Care and Treatment Home School, Yaba, where they were received by the Vice Principal of the Child Care and Home School, Mrs Omowunmi Cole, on behalf of the Principal. She then received the gifts from the Punuka delegation, thanked Mrs Elizabeth Idigbe for always being there for the home. The Foundation members also visited the Friends of Jesus Orphanage, in Badore, Ajah, where the head of the Orphanage, Sister Regina welcomes the Punuka team. Responding Mr Nnamdi thanked the children for the wonderful reception, while commending the staff of the Orphanage for doing a wonderful job with the children. Items donated to the Orphanage, apart from food items, include one flat screen television, a gas cooker and a deep freezer.