Kabir Akingbolu In every society, there must be a leader or leaders. These leaders are the controller of men and their affairs, as well as the managers of state resources. At times, some are born as leaders, some have leadership thrust upon them by nature or sometimes fight to reach a level that everybody believes in no other persons but them as leaders. However, in modern societies, leadership came about as a result of a kind of conscious and deliberate acceptance of certain people as leaders. This deliberate acceptance is usually expressed in democratic way, that is, through periodic voting in elections.
That being the case, it goes without saying that for someone or anybody to be a leader in any society, he cannot impose himself on the people except he presents himself to the people to be elected, and this election comes in stages because of the variegated interests of the people or players on the democratic or electoral field.
In recognition of the foregoing, the Electoral Act 2010 (as amended) has put in place certain procedures to be followed in governorship election; and these procedures include the conduct of primaries before the real election, which for the purpose of this discourse, is governorship election in Ekiti State on 27th January,2022. For the purpose of clarity and elucidation, Section 87(i) of the Electoral Act provides that, “a political party seeking to nominate candidates for elections under this Act shall hold primaries for aspirants to all elective positions”. In the same vein, paragraph 14 of the All Progressives Congress (APC) guidelines for the conduct of primary election for candidates for the Ekiti State Governorship Election 2022 made adequate provisions for the purpose of assured transparency. A dispassionate consideration of the above provision of the law and the guidelines would reveal that holding of primaries is sine qua non to holding of a governorship election in any State. That being the case, and in religious obedience to the provisions of the law and the APC guidelines, the APC National Working Committee, put in place the guidelines for the conduct of the Ekiti State primary election slated for 27th January, 2022.
As expected, the Seven Member Election Committee put in place by the National Working Committee (NWC) of the APC began work in earnest by setting up the various organs or bodies that are recognized by the guidelines toward holding a hitch free primary election in the State. A day to the day slated for the primaries, certain concerns were raised by the contestants, in persons of my noble Prince, Chief Dayo Adeyeye, Michael Opeyemi Bamidele, Kajode Ojo, Demola Popoola, Femi Bamisile, Bamidele Faparusi and Afolabi Oluwasola. Chief amongst these concerns was that certain officers of the Party were selected to participate in the conduct of the primaries and as it were, they could compromise the process. To clear their doubts and ensure a peaceful primary election, the Election Committee, hearkened to their yearnings by requesting each of them to select or appoint at least Twenty (20) persons of unquestionable integrity, in their own judgement, to act as Electoral Officers, who would represent their interest in the election, and they did. With this deliberate choice of representative, one would expect that all was well, but alas! Few hours to the election, they all pulled out of the contest, citing compromise, predetermination of winners, lack of trust in the process, and all sorts of pedestrian reasons. They did not stop there, they marched to the Party Secretariat in the State and made it known to the whole world that they were not parties to the election primaries. The questions to ask are many, and part of them are: were they right to pull out of the process? Was cutting off the head the solution to headache? Are they not bound by their earlier resolve to abide by their rules during the stakeholders meeting held on 26th July, 2022 before the election where they chose their own representatives? Having pulled out of the race, do they have cause of action thereafter? All these Posers are the deluge of questions at the flood gate of my mind. According to Professor Dias of Cambridge University, “originality of thought is ensured by a breath of view, a sense of perceptive and sympathetic appreciation of what people have said and are still saying”. What have the people said in respect of this type of situation where people abandon their rights and obligations for sheer public outcry, self-pity or sheer deliberate attempt to attract sympathy? To answer this poser, I will draw strength and wisdom from the statement of jurists which, of course, are derived from judicial pronouncements. In the case of Thomas V. Olufosoye (1986) 1 NWLR (pt.18) 669, the court, even though it agreed with the plaintiffs that they were communicants of the Anglican Church, it declared that they were meddlesome interlopers (busy bodies) who had no right to challenge the appointment made by the church. Based on the foregoing, since some actually backed out of the primary election conducted by the APC in Ekiti State on 27th January, 2022, can they challenge the outcome of such exercise in a Court of Law?
With profound respect and sublime humility, they have no right to challenge the outcome of the Governorship primary election in question because they lacked what is called, locus standi, that is, the right to sue, in law. Although, Mr. Bamidele boasted to high heaven that there will be legal Tsunami; I laughed at such dramatic outburst borne out of sheer emotion and sentiments. Unfortunately, emotions and sentiments, however well scripted, has no place in judicial proceedings. See the dictum of Dongban Mensem in Agballah V. Nnamani (2005) ALL FWLR (pt. 245) 1052 at 1078 – 1079, where his Lordship declared that “a Court of Law is not a father Christmas, neither is it a charitable house where decisions are based on sympathy and compassion”.
Similarly, in Osadebey V. AG. Bendel State (1991) NWLR (pt. 169) 525 at 563, the Supreme Court held that “if sympathy is to dominate our judicial task, we will falter and be unable to discharge our paramount duty of preserving the rule of law”. Strictly speaking, and without being, immodest, the outburst of emotions by these aspirants that never be, may, no doubt, have its admirers but those can only come from the market place and their disappointed supporters across the State and no more. I boldly say this because as players in Political field, they should know that contest for political offices have two end results, viz: winning and losing. Therefore, since losing is an integral part of the game, it would have been better if they lose honourably than chicken out of the contest midway and leave their supporters at cross roads. Although, some people believe that part of their grouse was the alleged endorsement of Mr. Biodun Oyebanji, whatever that means, it is submitted that even if it were so, almost all of them have benefitted one way or the other from such endorsements by the same Governor Fayemi even in more conspicuous occasions in the past. Therefore, what is the need for the unnecessary fuss?
Back to the basics, in recent time, our Superior Courts have had occasions to pronounce on similar scenario and their conclusions have been so consistent and constant that it has now snowballed or crystallized to a legal concept that is as strong as the rock of Gibraltar and thus, remains the law. In Isah V. INEC (2016) 18 NWLR (Pt.1544) 175 at 226, the Court declared as follows; “the rule on locus standi developed to protect the courts from being used as a playground by professional litigants and meddlesome interlopers who have no real interest in the subject matter of the litigation. Applying the above to the facts of the case, the Appellant has been unable to show how his civil rights and obligations have been or are in danger of being infringed in an election in which he did not participate. It becomes clear that he has no interest in the gubernatorial elections held on 31/12/11 for Kogi State”. In essence, going by these arrays of judicial pronouncements, it is very clear that only those who participated in a primary election can sue or challenge the outcome of same in a Court of Law. In other words, Prince Dayo Adeyeye, Chief Dayo Adeyeye, Michael Opeyemi Bamidele, Kajode Ojo, Demola Popoola, Femi Bamisile, Bamidele Faparusi and Afolabi Oluwasola, who all failed to participate in the primary election held in Ekiti State on 27th January, 2022, cannot challenge the result of the election or any perceived wrongs complained of in any Court of Law. See the case of Alhassan V. Ishaku (2017) ALL FWLR (pt. 866) 209 at 274-275, where Rhodes Vivour JSC, had this to say; “after examination of decided authorities, it is so clear that Party primaries are the domestic affairs of the political Party which no outsider can complain about. Only aspirants at the primaries can complain about the conduct of Party primaries”. While contributing to the judgement in Alhassan V. Ishaku (Supra), Odili JSC, declared that “it is only a candidate/aspirant at the primaries of a Party that has the locus standi to complain about the conduct of such primaries and so, the grouse of the appellants have nothing to stand on as they are clearly inter lopers in regard to how the 1st respondent emerged as candidate and also how, where and when the 2nd respondent produced its candidate. Therefore, no matter how loudly the appellants shout on the irregularity, impropriety of the primaries of the 1st and 2nd respondents, the noise will remain unheard and unattended to coming from those whose voices ought not to be heard in the internal matters of another. See also, Daniel V. INEC (2015) ALL FWLR (pt. 1463) 113 at 155-157, Tarzoor V. Ortom (2016) All FWLR (P +865) 1 at 22-25 and Kolawole V. Folusho (2009) NWLR ( pt. 1143) 338 at 399”. To cap it up, Section 87(9) of the Electoral Act, put a hard seal on the fate of these never be aspirants when it provides that; “notwithstanding the provisions of this Acts or Rules of a political party, an aspirant who complains that any of the provisions of the Act and the guidelines of a political party has not been complied with in the selection or nomination of a candidate of a political party for election, may apply to the Federal High Court or The High Court of a State or FCT for redress”. Taking a cue from the above, it is very clear that for these aspirants that never be to challenge the outcome of the primaries, they ought to have participated. In a nutshell, It is submitted that having failed to participate in the election, they have shot themselves on the legs and barred legally from contesting or challenging the primary election so held. And in the unlikely event that they do, their case or cases are dead on arrival as they have no right to present a case to challenge the election in which they did not participate. They are meddlesome interlopers for all intent and purposes. It may be argued though, that certain votes were recorded, received or credited to them and as a result of this, the obvious conclusion will be that they participated in the primary election. To this puerile contention, it is humbly submitted, that good attempt it seems though, it is a wingless bird that cannot fly however hard it tries. The reason for this is that since the seven of them did not only say they were not party to the primaries but also protested and granted interviews telling the whole world that they were not party or partakers in the primary election. That being the case, the only obvious conclusion to any reasonable man is that the votes credited to them must have come from some of their supporters who did not receive notice of their last minute withdrawal from the race. The question to ask therefore, is; what are the implications of the votes credited to them? The answer, it is submitted, is that such votes are wasted voted. This is because nobody or authority can forcefully give to a person what he has rejected openly. And since no one can foist votes on unwilling aspirants, any votes purportedly cast for them are wasted and invalid votes. Put differently, their open withdrawal from the race constitutes a binding notice to the whole world that they were not aspirants at the said election and nothing can change that because their open assertion constitutes an estoppel which principle, in law, forbids them from resiling from their position which they communicated to the whole world. For proper appreciation of this principle, section 169 of the Evidence Act, 2011 provides; “where one person has either by virtue of an existing court judgment,deed or agreement,or by his Declaration, Act or Omission intentionally caused or permitted another person to believe a thing to be true and to act upon such belief, neither he nor his representative in interest shall be allowed, in any proceedings between himself and such person or such person’s representative in interest,to deny the truth of that thing”. Riding on the shoulder of the above provision of the law, it is not only clear but save to conclude that if any suit is filed,it will be nothing more than a mere barren, otiose, kite flying and sheer distraction. Again,the open withdrawal by them constitutes an admission against interest which, in law, is the strongest evidence against someone when issues concern him.. See the case of Seismograph v. Eyuafe (1976) 9-10 S.C. 135. In other words,it is highly impossible for them to now turn around 360 degree and claim they participated in the primary election so as to willy-nilly, cloth themselves with the requisite locus standi to be able to challenge the outcome of the primary election which said they wont participate. On the whole, viewed from any reasonable angle, it is not in doubt by any shred of imagination that for these seven wise men, it is head they lose,tail they lose,because whatever happens, call rose by whatever name,it will still smell sweet as bitter leaf will forever retain its bitter tastes whether it is cooked or squeezed. In essence, from whatever angle any case for them is couched or framed, it will end in shambles. • Akingbolu, a Constitutional Lawyer writes from Lagos.