Benjamin Nworie in Abakaliki Ebonyi State University chapter of the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) has denied alleged victimisation of some lecturers of the university by its management. In a statement signed by the Chairman, ASUU-EBSU Caretaker Committee, Dr. Godfrey Nwambeke, and the Secretary, Dr. Douglas Nnachi, the union said ASUU-NEC goofed by including Ebonyi State University as an institution where academic staff were victimised without recourse to ASUU-EBSU congress. According to the statement, “It remains a surprise that in this present peaceful situation, they are subsisting that ASUU-NEC could include Ebonyi State University as an institution where academic staff members are victimised without recourse to ASUU-EBSU congress. This is really absurd. “We think what should be foremost before ASUU-NEC now should be helping ASUU-EBSU to hold its election which is long overdue since the present ASUU-EBSU Caretaker Committee was formed following the sack of the former acting Chairperson, Dr. Ikechukwu Igwenyi, by the congress. The ASUU-NEC should as a matter of fact not allow itself to be misled by anyone masquerading as representative of ASUU-EBSU apart from the duly constituted caretaker committee. “Presently, Ebonyi State University is very peaceful and calm with all staff, both academic and non-academic, going about their normal businesses and responsibilities without molestation or threat. Though there may be administrative actions against erring staff by the management, such are purely administrative matters that do not require action of the union, as where there is no discipline and order, anarchy takes over. Administrative breaches are handled administratively by those whose responsibility it is, and labour matters are handed by the labour unions.” They also called on ASUU-NEC to stop being indifferent to issues concerning ASUU-EBSU which they ought to have resolved ever since to strengthen the union. “We appreciate, especially all our members for keeping fate with ASUU-EBSU, by going about their normal official duties and other academic activities,” the union said.