Real Madrid, Barcelona and Juventus are reportedly planning to compete in a pre-season tournament in the United States this summer. The three clubs were part of and are still continuing to push for the failed European Super League project. While the other nine teams involved in the original proposals pulled out due to public backlash, the three European heavyweights believe that a revamp is still needed at the top level of the game. ESPN reported that the three teams have come together over the possibility of holding a pre-season tournament on the West Coast of the United States. Several cities would be keen to host the competition which would include high-profile games including the El Clasico. The three clubs have also approached Serie A giants AC Milan about the possibility of being the fourth team in the tournament. It’s said that Madrid, Barcelona and Juventus are looking at how to maximise profit from the fixtures, as they look to offset the massive losses they have experienced since the pandemic hit in 2020. Back in August 2021, Barcelona President Joan Laporta said the club were £1.1billion in debt – though insisted this was not all down to the pandemic. Before the pandemic, all three sides regularly toured the United States, with the two Spanish sides last visiting in 2019 and Juventus in 2018. The first ever El Clasico played outside of Spain took place in Miami in 2017, with Barcelona defeating Madrid 3-2 in Neymar’s last game before his move to Paris Saint-Germain. Twelve teams were initially part of the breakaway European Super League, which would have seen those involved drop out of the Champions League. Among the 12 were six Premier League sides in Arsenal, Chelsea, Liverpool, both Manchester clubs and Tottenham. Massive protests among supporters though led to the English teams dropping out of the project less than 48 hours after it was launched. UEFA confirmed in September they will not be imposing any sanctions on Real Madrid, Barcelona and Juventus while fines for the nine teams that withdrew were suspended.