Society Watch The Chairman, Board of Directors, Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation (NDIC), Ronke Sokefun, surely has a lot to thank God for in life. Think of a lucky woman, and her name will pop up. Sofekun, who became a lawyer at 21, is one of the emerging gladiators in the nation’s political firmament.
It all started when she was appointed a Special Adviser on Land Matters to a former governor of Ogun State, Senator Governor Ibikunle Amosun. While she held that position, Sokefun performed beyond expectations. As fate would have it, her diligence and commitment paid off, as she was later appointed the state’s Commissioner for Urban and Physical Planning. In the twilight of the Ibikunle Amosun-led administration, she was lifted, as she was appointed the Chairman of the Governing Board of NDIC by President Muhammadu Buhari. Indeed, the year 2021 ended on a good note for the intelligent woman, following her appointment as a non-executive director by the leading oil and gas company, Oando Plc. Despite her seemingly intimidating profile, she still tells anyone who cares to listen that she is not fulfilled yet. Her desire, she often says, is to be more relevant to her immediate community. Little wonder, the brilliant and upwardly woman was all smiles penultimate Friday when the Pediatric Unit of the General Hospital, Ayetoro, Ogun State was inaugurated. The unit is a stand-alone within the premises of the hospital and well-equipped with world-class facilities. Society Watch gathered that the project was conceptualised through her non-Governmental Organisation (NGO), M.R.S Foundation, founded in 2020, with the pristine vision to ensure that no community, regardless of its location, lacks the requisite basic social amenities.
The Foundation’s key focus is to act as an interventionist by complementing the government’s efforts in the provision of basic social amenities, specifically in the education and health sectors. In 2020, when the foundation was set up, with the financial support of NDIC, it delivered on its first major project, a 200-seater ICT Centre, sited in the premises of Comprehensive High School, Ayetoro, Yewa North Local Government, Ogun State.
The centre has since been accredited by the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB). It played host to 800 students in the April 2021 JAMB/UTME examinations. The Foundation has also intervened several times in other areas, specifically in the education sector. Present during the ceremony was a member of the Board of Trustees of M.R.S. Foundation, Bankole Animashaun; representative of the Alake and Paramount Ruler of Egbaland, the Onijale of Ijale Papa; Chief of Staff to Ogun State Governor, Alhaji Shuaibu Salisu; CMD, General Hospital, Saala, Ayetoro, Dr. O.I. Maku; representative of the Ogun State Commissioner for Health, Dr. Wellington Ogunsanya; former Senator representing Ogun West, Senator Felix Kola Bajomo; State Controller, Federal Ministry of Works representing the Minister for Works & Housing, Mr. Bakare, as well as some nursing staff of the hospital, among others.