Hammed Shittu in Ilorin A youth group, Grow Nigeria Youth Movement (GNYM), at the weekend said former Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki, has the capacity (with the requisite legislative and executive experiences) to return Nigeria to the path of economic prosperity and religious and ethnic unity in 2023. The convener of the group, AbdulHamid Issa Mohammed, stated this in Ilorin, the Kwara State capital, during a mega rally organised to support Saraki presidential ambition. Members of the group yesterday marched through major streets of Ilorin to mobilise the people of the state towards supporting the presidential ambition of the former state governor, Saraki. They passed through Taiwo, Unity, Challenge and Post Office area before stopping at the GRA Ilorin residence of the former Senate president. Mohammed, however, said Saraki had passed through major political exposures that can be used to add values for the political growth of the country. He noted that: “Dr. Bukola Saraki records and experience as the Senior Special Assistant to former President Olusegun Obasanjo; as a former governor of Kwara State, and as a former Senate President. “With the various positions he was once occupied, Saraki has distinguished himself and those positions have continued to be a tonic towards his presidential aspiration.” He added that the movement held town hall meetings with youths across the country which followed it’s consultations across the country. The group leader said Saraki has the right family, religious and cosmopolitan backgrounds to advance the country’s unity at this time. Mohammed said: “Today, you see the mammoth crowd which is over 10,000 youths. If not for the fuel scarcity, this number would have tripled the number. “Our match is not enough to make him the president of Nigeria except with our PVCs, and that is why we are calling on other youths yet to get theirs to do so while those that already have should maintain it for the forthcoming election to elect Saraki.” Receiving the group on behalf of Saraki, the state Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Chairman and former Speaker of the state House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. Babatunde Mohammed, said the action of the youths was in line with the agitation in the North Central region for the seat and the consensus on Saraki. Babatunde urged other presidential aspirants in the party to support Saraki, who “has the best credentials and background to unite the country, especially at this time that we are viciously divided.”