Igbawase Ukumba A political group, Rescue Nigeria Mission (RNM), yesterday held a one-day induction training programme for supporters of Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello, as a build-up to the 2023 presidential race. The one-day induction training programme for Bello’s supporters brought together members of the group across the six states of the North Central zone and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) to Lafia, the Nasarawa State capital. Speaking at the one-day induction training programme, the North Central Coordinator of the group, Tauhid Haruna, explained that members of the group across the six states of the North Central zone and the FCT converged on Lafia to attend the induction training programme. Haruna added that the group, which comprises youths and women, decided that it was time for a youthful and energetic president to emerge in 2023 in order to tackle the numerous problems confronting the country. The North Central coordinator of the group stated that since Bello was elected into office as governor, he has been able to deliver the dividends of democracy to residents of state, especially in the area of human capital development which is why a lot of Nigerians are urging him to contest for the 2023 presidency. He said: “We are calling on Governor Bello to run for the office of president of the country because at this stage of Nigeria’s existence, we need a youthful leader who is vibrant and has the strength and capacity to take us out of the present situation that we find ourselves. “We have mobilised thousands of youths across the North Central zone, and we are making efforts to get more people to join us, because we believe that Yahaya Bello is the solution to the problems of Nigeria.” Also, the Nasarawa State Coordinator of the group, Musa Nagogo, appealed to residents of the state to join the group in order to advocate for a better Nigeria. He said, “When we were little children, we were told that we are the leaders of tomorrow but up till today, that tomorrow has not come because the old citizens have refused to give the youths a chance to lead. I am calling on all residents of Nasarawa State and Nigerians in general to join us in this movement for a better country.” In his speech, the National Coordinator of RNM, Abdullahi Damat, said it was time for the youths to take over the leadership of the country in a bid to correct the errors done by the old citizens who have held sway since 1999.