The Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Isiaka Oladayo Amao, has commended Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State for his administration’s continued support to the Nigerian Air Force and other military formations and units within the state. The Chief of Air Staff’s commendation was conveyed by the new Air Officer Commanding Ground Training Command, Enugu, Air Vice Marshal I.O. Daramola, when he paid a courtesy visit to Gov. Ugwuanyi in Enugu yesterday. Air Vice Marshal Daramola was at the Government House, Enugu, to formally inform Gov. Ugwuanyi of his assumption of office as the Air Officer Commanding Ground Training Command, Enugu and reassure the governor of “our commitment of the security and development of Enugu State”. Stressing the supportive role of Gov. Ugwuanyi in ensuring internal security in Enugu State and beyond, Daramola appreciated the governor “for the support that you continue to provide to the Military in general, the Army, Police and to us the Nigerian Air Force.” He pointed out that “it is this support that has ensured that Enugu has remained the most peaceful state in the South-east geo-political zone.” : “That goes with the fact that the numerous legacy infrastructure projects you have put in place especially the roads within Enugu and in the rural areas are part of those things that ensured that the state remains secure,” he added. According to him, “Within your time of leadership in this state, so much developments have come in that have curtailed the activities of these miscreants in this state. “We want to thank you for receiving us and assure you again that the Chief of Air Staff’s highest esteem and regards as well as his continued cooperation to ensure that Enugu State remains safe.” Responding, Gov. Ugwuanyi welcomed the new Air Vice Marshal to Enugu State, saying that his administration’s partnership with the Nigerian Air Force in the state is commendable. The governor disclosed that the Nigerian Air Force has always played a major role in the security architecture of Enugu State and reassured the new Air Vice Marshal that the state government will continue to collaborate with the Air Force alongside other security agencies to effectively discharge their duties.