President Muhammadu Buhari has described former Senate President, Anyim Pius Anyim, as one fit for higher responsibilities if given the opportunity. Buhari noted that Anyim, who was also at a time Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), displayed uncommon leadership qualities while in office. President Buhari’s position was echoed by former President Goodluck Jonathan, who said he never received any negative reports on Anyim while the former served as SGF under his administration. Buhari and Jonathan spoke separately in Abuja yesterday at a political event organised to mark Anyim’s 61 birthday. In a goodwill message, President Buhari, who was represented by the SGF, Boss Mustapha, said Anyim has got what it takes to be entrusted with higher responsibilities in the future. Anyim is one of the aspirants seeking the presidential ticket of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for the 2023 elections. Describing the PDP presidential aspirant as a humble leader who saw the entire country as single constituency, the President added that Anyim rose to the challenges of leadership by putting the nation first. Buhari said: “Senator Pius Anyim is a patriotic Nigerian who always puts his nation first and he is one of the stabilising voices we have today in the politics of our country.” On his part, Jonathan described Anyim as a unique leader who never allowed the trappings of office to get into his head. The former President observed that the sheer number of personalities that gathered to honour Anyim at the event was an indication of the trust Nigerians reposed in him, even years after leaving office as SGF. Jonathan said: “Having served in that position (SGF) for the period, I know he is fully baked and I didn’t receive too many complaints.” In his own contribution, former Vice President, Namadi Sambo, also commended Anyim, saying that he was able to stabilise the Senate when he presided over the upper legislative chamber. Former Minister of Justice and Attorney General, Bello Adoke, described Anyim as a team player and a humble leader that is always ready to take on any task for the good of his country. Some of the dignitaries that attended the event include former Senate President Adolphus Wabara, Venatius Ikem, Col. Bala Mande, Sen. Sanusi Dagash, Senator Dino Melaye and Attahiru Bafarawa. Many past and serving members of the National Assembly were also in attendance.