Kemi Olaitan in Ibadan National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu, yesterday, took consultations in view of his presidential aspiration to the Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi and Olubadan-designate, High Chief Lekan Balogun, where he vowedthat no amount of intimidation could halt his determination to become Nigeria’s next president. Tinubu, while speaking at the palace of Alaafin in Oyo and the residence of the Olubadan-designate, said the country was at crossroads and was ready to get dirty, stating that he was all out to become the president of the country. He added that his visit to both Oyo and Ibadan was borne out of his respect for the royal stool and as well to seek for their blessings, cooperation and prayers to lead the country come 2023. Tinubu at the palace of Alaafin said, “I cannot embark on a project of such magnitude without seeking prayers and cooperation of the traditional rulers. “I am here today to inform our fathers of my decision to run for the position of the president of this country in 2023. What I need from our highly referred traditional rulers is their prayers and cooperation. “Today, by the special grace of God, in Yorubaland, unlike before, we have Vice President, Minister of Works, Interior and Sports but we still need more,” he said. Oba Adeyemi, in his remarks, while invoking the spirits of his fore-bearers, said his request has been granted, assuring Tinubu that all the ancestors of Yorubaland would work in his favour and answer his prayers. He then asked the 10 Oke-Ogun traditional rulers in attendance at the meeting whether they were in support of his decision, and their response was: “We are fully in support.” At the event, the retired Arch Bishop of Methodist Church Nigeria, Ayo Ladigbolu, also prayed for the fulfilment of his ambition. At the residence of Olubadan designate, the monarch said, “We have known you and we know your antecedents. We know your antecedents as a progressive. You laid a foundation of Today Lagos. You are the leading light of Nigeria. You contributed to make Nigeria what it is today. “Without Yoruba, Nigeria will not be what it is today. Nigeria is badly divided. We are looking forward to a Yoruba president, who will unite this country. We need a leader that will have a national focus and national acceptability. The road may be rough but by His grace, you will triumph.”