Victor Ogunje in Ado Ekiti Some aggrieved All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship aspirants in Ekiti State, including the Senator representing Ekiti Central, Opeyemi Bamidele, and a House of Representatives member, Hon Femi Bamisile, have declared that they would not dump the party because of their grievances over the ‘shadow’ primary. The aspirants said as much as they won’t dump the party, they posited that they won’t hesitate to stay inside the party and teach it a bitter lesson over the alleged electoral malfeasance perpetrated during the primary using political and legal means. Addressing his campaign team across the 16 local government areas of the state, who converged on his office in Ado Ekiti yesterday, Bamidele and Bamisile formally rejected the outcome of the primary that produced Biodun Oyebanji, after due consultations with supporters. Bamidele added that all the alleged shenanigans and breach of the party’s constitution perpetrated by the Governor Abubakar Badaru-led primary committee would be addressed politically and legally to teach the APC a lesson it will never forget. On whether the seven aggrieved aspirants that had constituted themselves into a political force with the acronym G7 would defect from the APC, Bamidele said: “None of us is contemplating any defection from the APC-this is our party. We have contributed so much to it from the days of Alliance for Democracy (AD). “All we are asking for is justice. We are waiting for the national leadership to take the right step and this must start by them submitting a dummy name to INEC and use the two weeks window available as contained in the Electoral Act to do what is right in this matter. I can be quoted that the name that will be taken to INEC in Abuja will be dummy name, so those celebrating should do that in moderation. “If it is part of their calculation that we will leave the party for them, they are making a mistake. We are still waiting for the national leadership on our collective position. We have filed petitions, and if they endorse that impunity they called primary, it will be clear that we have exhausted all the internal mechanisms for crisis resolution and we can return to the court of law.” Reeling out how the election was allegedly manipulated, Bamidele stated that the Badaru-led committee hijacked the process by distributing materials a day before the election, changed collation centres, and arbitrarily appointed those that would do Oyebanji’s biddings to compromise the process and subvert the will of the people. According to him, “The ad hoc staff members were to be adopted for the conduct of the poll because it was assumed that every member in Ekiti State would have taken position. When you talk of ad hoc staff, it means those that would be brought from the national secretariat of the party or APC members from other states. “The process was totally hijacked by Badaru committee. What we saw was that those who were campaign managers, sponsors and promoters of Biodun Oyebanji being appointed and saddled with the responsibility of being Returning Officers in the 16 local government areas. “The election materials were to be distributed early on Thursday before the start of the primary and to be distributed in the presence of agents of aspirants, INEC, security chiefs and monitoring teams. But the materials, both sensitive and non-sensitive, were distributed the previous night. We got calls that as of 11p.m., Governor Badaru had handed over materials to Returning Officers from the 16 council areas. “Out of the 16 Returning Officers appointed, 11 of them were with Oyebanji when he collected his Expression of Interest form at the party secretariat in Abuja. “In several of our local government areas, the venues of our collation centres were changed. At the appropriate time, we will give evidence that will put all of us in public court, and that will be useful in the court of law. Available INEC report shows that there was no voting-no valid primary election in Ekiti State. “One thing I can assure you is that the last is not yet heard about the Ekiti State governorship primary. We will not stop at anything to seek justice. We should take every step that will challenge this political misbehaviour from repeating itself in future, so that politicians can learn how to take caution and be civil.” In his submission, Bamisile warned the security agencies against threatening people with arrest over the APC governorship crisis, saying such will not work. “This is our state; we are fighting for what we believe in, and this is a democracy where everyone has the right to support whoever he likes. The police shouldn’t threaten us with arrest. “Nobody can stop this, the only thing they can do to stop us is to allow justice in our party,” he stated.