Yinka Kolawole in Osogbo The National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Ahmed Bola Tinubu, yesterday posited that he personally sold APC to Nigeria in 2015 as a cure because Nigeria was sick during the period. Asiwaju who spoke at the palace of Ataoja of Osogbo, Oba Jimoh Olanipekun Oyetunji, during a continuation of his consultation in Osun State said, “the Nigeria you know in 2015 was sick and APC was used as a cure. “As you believe in us, accepted our commitment, we told you things that some people could not do, we will effortlessly deliver it, we promise to mend the broken place so that we can all be happy.” The former governor of Lagos State stressed that “Today, outside the President, we the Yorubas, we are the highest and the most steady tribe that you can count on in the administration but the time of democracy is sincere to everybody, it is Calendared in the constitution that four years is for tenure and as a president and governors it is only two terms, except honourables and Senators.” He pointed out that “Now the calendar is ticking, it is now the season, period that Nigeria is looking for a thorough solid hope and change for progress, prosperity and growth. “ He continued, “We need a lot of jobs, solid education for our children, we need progress for our country. We want somebody that can bring that, we have in our old national anthem that though tribe and tongues may differ in brotherhood we stand. It has come that we must be solid in that, it has come that we must know that it is the same blood that is running in our veins irrespective of tribe and faith. We must have a good attitude for progress and prosperity.” He further contended that it was “about honest service for our country to bring progress that will give us joy and prosperity.” He reminded Nigerians that they must find courage, determination, perseverance, “you must find that fellow who will love you, respect you and prioritise national development.” According to him, “As soon as I review the constitution, I ask myself who is better than me, this prompted me to come out, consult, and be ready to serve the country. “I have been going around, I offer myself the opportunity to become the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. I have informed Buhari of this, I told him that I want to step into his shoe and not break a toe. I told him that I want to serve my country to the best of my ability. “I am the quality that Nigeria is looking for to make this country a very great, prosperous, united country, not only in Africa but in the world. “God has blessed us with all resources; human and materials. The only thing that is ready to streamline it for us is character. We must build that character of determination, resilience and perseverance. We must see ourselves as one nation that will bring prosperity for all.” Asiwaju, however, submitted that he would not let Nigerians down, I have the brain and capacity. If you hear them saying, can I do it? “I am not applying for the job of grave digger, race running, I am not a horse. I am not applying for a job of bricklaying, I went to school to study Accountancy and Management. I am applying for a job of brain, intelligent thinking who is ready to do things right, the job I want to do for Nigeria is for Nigeria to be greater and be proud of our sons and daughters and leave a legacy of unlimited success.” But in his remarks the Ataoja of Osogbo land, Oba jimoh Olanipekun Oyetunji offered prayers for his victory. He said he would continue to support him in prayers at all times.