Blessing Ibunge in Port Harcourt The Rivers State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has dismissed the allegations that it is conniving with the former Senator, Magnus Abe, to fuel further crisis in the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state. The APC ward 7 in Asari-Toru Local Government Area and ward 4 in Opobo/Nkoro LGA had during a press conference in Abuja made the allegation, stating that the PDP is working in hand with Abe to ensure that the APC is delisted from the 2023 ballot sheet. Meanwhile, the state PDP Publicity Secretary, Tambari Gbara, has denied the claims, saying the allegation was maliciously planned to embarrass the party Chairman, Desmond Akawor. Gbara stated that the PDP in Rivers State is not afraid to face the APC in the 2023 general election, and wonder why such allegations should be coming up now. Part of the statement issued by Gbara yesterday in Port Harcourt read: “We believe that this false story of a meeting between the Senator Abe’s group and the state PDP Chairman, Akawor, was willfully and maliciously planned to embarrass the person of the PDP chairman. “The PDP has the irresistible belief that the press conference was staged ostensibly to smear his hard earned character. “The PDP sees the unending crises rocking the APC as unfortunate and an embarrassment to the state, because the Rivers people are known to be warm and hospitable, but those in the APC are portraying us otherwise. “We want to for the umpteenth time sound it loud and clear for those who care to listen that the PDP has no hand in the imbroglio between the two factions of the APC in the state. “They should understand that the days when such cheap blackmail festered in the public domain are gone. The APC factions in Rivers State have shown that they still have a long way to go in their lingering crises. “If the Rotimi Amaechi faction of the APC has problems with the Senator Abe’s faction, the honourable thing to do is look for amicable avenue to resolve the impasse rather than trying to falsely involve PDP leaders who are preoccupied with building a solid and united party.” The statement added: “We, therefore, call on the good people of the state to discountenance the concocted lies dished out to embarrass the person of the PDP chairman, and to hoodwink unsuspecting members of the public with a view to attracting sympathy and attention.”