• VP canvasses considerable developmental gains for Niger Delta Deji Elumoye in Abuja The Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo has bemoaned the delay in the delivery of justice in the country, describing it as one of the cankerworms eating up the judicial system in the country. Osinbajo said this at the 20th Memorial Anniversary Symposium of Bankole Olumide Aluko (SAN), who died on 18th February, 2002, held in Lagos, at the weekend. The theme of the symposium was: “Administration of Justice: The Ideal Standard, The Nigerian Reality and our Potential.” In his keynote address, Osinbajo, was quoted in a statement, to have given conditions for the maintenance of law and order as well as governance. He explained: “The administration of the justice system is the foundation of law and order, commerce as well as democracy. When the system of administration of justice fails, these pillars of governance and orderly society also collapse. “Investor hesitancy or reluctance is also a reflection of the inefficiency and lack of confidence in the integrity of the commercial dispute resolution process, delay is disastrous.” The plenary session discussed the possibility of Nigeria’s system of justice rising to become one of Africa’s international litigation powerhouses. The vice president of Nigeria, showered encomiums on the late Bankole.
He said: “Every once in a while, a truly iconic figure comes by this way, usually one who excels in the accumulation of unique talent who we would describe as an icon. But not often is it the case that the icon is multi-talented and gifted in several ways. We had one of such icons 20 years ago; Bankole Olumide Aluko (SAN).” The memorial was organised by Aluko & Oyebode, a top law firm of which the late Bankole Olumide Aluko (SAN), was a co-founder.
In his opening remarks, the co-founder of Aluko and Oyebode, Gbenga Oyebode, expressed gratitude to the vice president, for honoring the invitation. Oyebode described Bankole as one who had respect for ethical standards and a particular love for his profession. One of the panelists, A.B. Mahmoud (SAN), emphasised the need to establish a strong regulatory framework that would elicit the appropriate values and culture among lawyers in the judicial system. Meanwhile, Osinbajo has canvassed for considerable developmental gains for the oil producing Niger Delta region. He, therefore, emphasised that a key objective of the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration was ensuring inclusive prosperity, which he said informed why the federal government was collaborating with state governments and increasing efforts towards ensuring the wholesome development of communities in the Niger Delta region and nationwide. Osinbajo, who spoke weekend at the flag-off of the Angiama-Oporoma Bridge, on the Yenagoa-Oporoma-Ukubie road in Bayelsa State, stressed that Niger Delta communities such as Oporoma, Angiama – where the bridge was being constructed, and others across the region, are home to vast amounts of mineral wealth and natural resources, so they deserve to have considerable developmental gains to show for it. He noted that the Angiama-Oporoma bridge construction was a symbol for development in the region, and would have a far-reaching impact on the lives of the people in the communities. “By facilitating easier access to places like Yenogoa and beyond with this bridge, we will be laying a foundation for development that will deepen commerce and create individual and collective opportunities for the people of these communities,” he stated. Osinbajo further said the President Buhari administration was committed to the wholesome development of the Niger Delta region, through its Niger Delta New Vision initiative. “As a matter of urgency, we are well on our way towards correcting historical lapses in this respect, through the collaborative efforts of the federal, state, and local governments, each one putting aside personal interests, and doing the best they can for the communities which have undeservedly suffered for so long.” The vice president also assured the people of the federal government’s full support and collaboration in every way possible.
“You have not been forgotten, and this milestone is only the beginning of greater things to come,” he said. Under the Buhari administration’s New Vision initiative, the region has witnessed significant development strides and projects, such as the ongoing Ogoni cleanup in Rivers State; the take-off of the Nigeria Maritime University; establishment of modular refineries across states in the region; infrastructure projects, including the 34-km Bonny-Bodo Road and Bridge project, the Warri-Itakpe railway line, among others. Osinbajo observed that for a country with the population and geographical span of Nigeria, guaranteeing inclusive prosperity is a mandate for Government. He added that this is especially so with the rapid urbanization of the last two decades, the consequent pressure on cities, and the difficulties of allocating scarce resources, faced by governments at all levels, and across the country. Highlighting the importance of such infrastructure projects to a nation’s development, the Vice President said, “we must always find the commitment, innovation, and persistence to put in place the quality and scale of infrastructure needed, to give our people the productive and competitive edge to better their lives, and we need to do it as fast as possible.” Speaking about the importance of the Angiama-Oporoma Bridge and Yenagoa-Oporoma-Ukubie road to development across the state, Osinbajo observed that “there can be no inclusive prosperity without the effective linkages of communities and the effective facilitation of trade that roads like this provide.” On how to ensure inclusive prosperity, the vice president disclosed that, “our ability to create an environment that allows each and every person, in each and every corner of the country, to get a fair chance at maximising their potential, is one of the surest routes to sustainable economic development.” He noted that the flag-off and completion of the project will unlock much commercial activities in Oporoma and neighbouring communities.