With the urgency surrounding improving diaspora remittances, First Bank of Nigeria has over the years through its partnership with all the leading and emerging international Money Transfer Operators, its vast network of over 750 branches nationwide enabled diaspora remittances in Nigeria. The Deputy Managing Director of the bank, Mr. Gbenga Shobo in this interview with Nume Ekeghe speaks on First Bank’s drive towards advancing diaspora remittances in Nigeria and recent polices around remittances. Being that diaspora remittances are an important stream of foreign exchange for Nigeria, what is FirstBank doing to foster diaspora remittances?
Remittance has always been a key focus of FirstBank, in fact, the first International Money Transfer Operator (IMTO) in the country came through FirstBank in 1996. Over the years, the bank has partnered with reputable IMTOs to increase remittance inflow into the country, easing the accessibility of its beneficiaries to receive money. We have also invested heavily in technology and IT infrastructure to ensure seamless experience in the receipt of diaspora inflow. How has FirstBank’s partnership with Western Union, MoneyGram, Ria, Transfast, WorldRemit and other international money transfer operators (IMTOs) fared over the years? It has been a mutually beneficial relationship. FirstBank has enabled these IMTOs to remit billions of dollars to beneficiaries in the country over the last two decades. FirstBank recently announced its partnership with more IMTOs to foster diaspora remittance. What was the strategy and insight to this?
Our goal is to always put our customers’ interests first. Partnering with other IMTOs gives the customers more options through which they can receive inflows from their loved ones in the diaspora. What is your market share of remittances collected from FirstBank compared to your competitors?
We are the market leader in the remittance space, our investments and expertise have kept us ahead of other competitors over the past 20 years. What is your assessment of the Naira4Dollar policy of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), would you say it is a boost towards improving remittances?
Yes, the initiative has positive impact on remittance growth in Nigeria. It has encouraged more Nigerians to send funds through official channels as beneficiary earns N5 for every dollar received. The bank has recorded significant growth in remittance since the introduction of the initiative in March 2021. Also, as a follow-up, how has FirstBank customers embraced the Naira4Dollar policy? Our customers have fully embraced the initiative as they receive the incentive due for each inflow.
Recently, FirstBank launched the First Global Transfer (FGT), its wholly owned remittance platform to cater to its African subsidiaries, how has this product fostered intra-African transfers and trade? FGT has eased remittance amongst our customers in African countries where Firstbank has its presence. It has fostered intra-Africa transfers and trade through a very fast, reliable, and automated solution that gives immediate value to the beneficiaries. The customers can confidently leverage the platform to transfer funds within African corridors. Interestingly, the unveiling of the FGT coincided with the commencement of the African Continental Free Trade Area (ACFTA), which kicked off on 1 January 2021. Was the timing deliberate or coincidental easing and promoting the implementation of ACFTA. The timing was coincidental. However, FGT will be leveraging ACFTA to boost intra-regional transfers amongst her customers’ as more traders will be empowered to do borderless transactions. What more can be done to encourage diaspora remittances through the official window against the backdoor channels?
More awareness should be created amongst the populace on the existing CBN intervention measures, such as CBN Naira4dollar initiative, auto-creation of USD Domiciliary accounts for customers without dollar account, etc., with this, beneficiaries will continue to encourage their senders to send through official channels. On the FirstBank part, we would continue to support all the CBN intervention policies and sensitize our customers to receive through official channels to enable them to reap the benefits therein. What innovations and services can your customers expect from FirstBank going forward?
We are working on providing seamless receipt of remittance through the provision of self-service options on our digital channels.