Peter Uzoho urges the Nigerian government and players in the country’s electricity value chain to promote the shift towards vacuum technology, an environmentally friendly, cost effective and durable insulation device Penultimate week, multinational power management company, Eaton Corporation, held a webinar where experts in the electricity value chain from different parts of the world engaged in a conversation on the need for a joint action against the sulphur hexafluoride (SF6) gas switchgears still largely in use. The world is currently pushing to save the environment from the harmful effects of carbon emission and anything that poses danger to the climate and humanity, hence the global crusade for a shift to cleaner and sustainable energy, popularly known as energy transition. In the energy transition movement, oil and gas has been fingered as a major area of concern, leading to the clamour for a reduction in oil and gas investment and ultimately, to discourage oil exploration and production and to eliminate fossil fuel’s use. At the webinar which focused on the topic: “The Debate on the Challenge of Going SF6-Free”, the stakeholders identified SF6 gas switchgear as a dangerous power technology due to its ability to warm the earth much more than carbon emission. As a result, they called for a shift toward vacuum technology, a modern switchgear that emits no gas, guarantees more environmental safety and more cost-efficient and durable.
WHAT IS SF6 GAS SWITCHGEAR? Cheap and non-flammable, Sulphur hexafluoride (SF6) is a man-made gas comprising one sulphur and six fluoride atoms. SF6 gas is chemically stable and highly electronegative, with a dielectric property of approximately 2.5 times more than air. Colourless, odourless and synthetic, SF6 gas is commonly used in medium and high-voltage electrical installations like power plants and electrical substations as an electrical insulation, arc quenching and cooling medium. In Nigeria, just like many other countries of the world, it is used across the electricity industry, from large power stations to wind turbines to electrical sub-stations in towns and cities. Its purpose is basically to prevent electrical accidents and fires. All the power generating plants, transmission substations as well as power distribution substations such as transformers in the country are all insulated with SF6 gas switchgears for the protection of equipment and personnel against fire outbreak. However, despite the excellent functions of the SF6 gas to electrical installations, experts believe that the significant downside to using the gas is that it has the highest global warming potential of any known substance, as it warms the earth 23,500 times more than carbon emissions. According to them, just one kilogramme of SF6 warms the earth to the same extent as 24 people flying London to New York return, adding that it persists in the atmosphere for a long time, warming the earth for at least 1,000 years. They posited that the leaks of the little-known SF6 gas in the United Kingdom and the rest of the European Union in 2017 were estimated to be the equivalent of putting an extra 1.3 million cars on the road. The leak levels, according to them, are rising as an unintended consequence of the green energy boom. “It’s the most powerful greenhouse gas known to humanity, and emissions have risen rapidly in recent years”, the BBC once stated. In a post-webinar interaction with THISDAY, Marketing Manager, English-speaking West African Countries, Eaton, Mr. Kunmi Oduoku, stressed the need for electrical equipment manufacturers to stop manufacturing SF6 gas switchgears and focus on vacuum technology. “The standard all over the world is that, manufacturers of switchgear should stop using that gas because of the fact that you can’t dispose it off easily and it’s not something that you recycle and it’s creating problems in the environment,” Oduoku said. He added, “When some of them are dumped into an open sea, they find their way into public areas, public amenities and stuffs like that. So, that’s why there is an industry acknowledgement that SF6 gas is not the way forward. “So, there are other ways you can make a switchgear safe. And that’s why for us at Eaton, we have moved to vacuum technology. In vacuum technology, you don’t need to use the FS6 gas. What we use is a technology called vacuum. That’s the ability to suck out air from a container.” ABOUT VACUUM TECHNOLOGY First invented in Germany, vacuum technology is a special SF6-free switchgear that is sealed for life and has no risk of gas leakage and potential environmental hazards. The advent of vacuum technology is believed to be a major boost to energy transition as the world is now faced with the fierce urgency of moving to energy that is cleaner, sustainable and recyclable. “We feel that if we continue to use a switchgear that the components are not recyclable or cannot be converted to another energy, obviously, the energy transition thing is being defeated. You are not actually achieving that because the whole essence of energy transition is to move to cleaner energy”, Oduoku pointed out. Owing to its durability, cost effectiveness and sustainability, many manufacturers of electrical equipment are delving into it and the device its gradually gaining traction in many advanced countries that are passionate about protecting the environment. In Nigeria, however, the deployment of vacuum technology has been slow, largely because there is no legislation yet to promote its adoption and application, which is one of the many factors militating against its full adoption in the country. Acknowledging that the shift away from SF6 gas switchgear is not going to happen over night, the proponents of vacuum technology believe that now is the time for all the stakeholders to start planning towards a gradual transition. CHALLENGE OF ADOPTION To discourage the use of the harmful SF6 gas switchgear in Nigeria while promoting its alternative- vacuum technology, experts believe that regulatory agencies in the power and environment sectors have a lot to do in terms of ensuring that policies and measures were put in place. Such agencies such as the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC), Nigeria Electricity Management Services Agency (NEMSA) and the Standard of Organization of Nigeria (SON) and others were challenged to drive the transition to vacuum technology in the country. This is because, according to Oduoku, “they are the ones in charge of the country’s industry standards, they are the ones that come up with requirements for distribution companies.” He further said, “So, till now, we still see that in terms of acceptance, Nigeria still accepts manufacturers of switchgear that contains SF6 gas. There is no regulation today that says a manufacturer cannot use SF6 gas. “And we are saying that it’s time for Nigeria to join the global community to understand that there is a price to pay in the future for using SF6 switchgear. So, we don’t have to wait till when it becomes a catastrophe or becomes too much of a burden. “This is the time for us to start planning toward phasing out this kind of switchgear. So, if you go to all substations that you have around in the country, they still have lots of switchgear that use SF6 gas technology for quenching of arc. “And we are saying that, let’s move away from this, let’s sensitise the stakeholders like the regulators and even end-users as well. We need to let them know that there is a danger ahead if we continue to use this SF6 gas in our switchgear. And that’s what the webinar was really trying to emphasise.” Apart from the absence of legislation or regulatory policy to discourage the use of SF6 gas, Oduoku pointed out that the cheapness of the dangerous SF6 gas switchgear is a major factor behind its continuous manufacturing and use. Admitting that the market’s law of demand and supply is favouring the manufacturing and use of SF6 gas switchgear, the Eaton marketing manager insisted that manufacturers are prioritising profit more than their responsibility to the environment. According to him: “A lot of manufacturers don’t bother. But we are saying that we should not collude to endanger the environment because of profit. That people are asking for it does not mean you should give it to them because you know the danger it is doing the society. “The truth is that in European countries, Asian countries, there are heavy regulations around SF6 gas. So, the manufacturers are not selling that much in those markets. But then, they come to Africa because there are no regulations, there are no enforcement of regulations, and then, they want to sell more of those switchgears in those kind of environment. “So we want a switch over. Eaton has switched over. We have a lot of that vacuum technology in the market. But we want a full industry switch over for safety reasons.” INCENTIVISING SWITCH To boost the willingness and capacity of the users of the SF6 gas switchgears to switch to vacuum technology, Oduoku suggested the introduction of incentives for power firms. He said, “There has to be an incentive for the users of SF6 gas switchgear like power plants, transmission companies and distribution companies to switch over. “The incentive has to come from a higher authority, the government. If you think about the move towards battling climate change, you could see that it is the government that is spearheading it. The switch will not come at no cost. There should be an incentive in terms of operating expenditure (OPEX) for them to switch over to vacuum technology.” EATON’s INTERVENTION On the company side, Eaton has embarked on several projects and programmes aimed at drawing the attention of the Nigerian Government and industry players to the dangers around SF6 and the need to embrace a better alternative. Last year, the company had a safety roundtable where it brought together officials from NEMSA, NERC, SON, Lagos State Safety Commission, Lagos State Power Service, Nigerian Institute of Electrical and Electronics, Association of Consulting Engineers, and other stakeholders to discuss the way forward. The idea, basically, was to raise the bar in terms of education and awareness creation on the imperative of going SF6 gas-free. Eaton has been pioneering SF6-free medium voltage switchgear systems for 60 years, providing green power management technologies that are safe, reliable, efficient and sustainable. The company pioneered SF6-free medium voltage switchgear production in 1960 with Magnefix, a compact solution for distribution system operators. Magnefix used cast resin insulation, enabling the construction of safe and compact green switchgear. Production lines were set up in Spain, South Africa and Australia. By developing SF6-free switchgear, Eaton offers green solutions to modern-day and future energy challenges. It has combined smart design and technological excellence, developing over 200-patented inventions to protect the planet and people. Eaton SF6-free switchgear is being sold in over 60 countries on more than 3,000 reference sites across multiple applications and segments.