Aubameyang Sends Emotional Farewell to Arsenal Fans Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang has admitted he has been left ‘hurt’ and ‘sad’ at the manner of his Arsenal exit. Barcelona yesterday confirmed the signing of Aubameyang on a free transfer from Arsenal. The 32-year-old Gabon striker signed a contract on Monday evening although it was not announced until Wednesday. Aubameyang’s deal runs until 30 June 2025 and includes an option to agree a departure in June 2023, plus a buyout clause of 100 million euros (£83.4m). But Aubameyang spoke his mind in an emotional farewell message he sent to Arsenal fans yesterday via his social media channels. The striker was frozen out of the first-team by boss Mikel Arteta after his latest brush with ill-discipline, and managed to secure an escape route to Catalonia after jetting out to Spain and agreeing to reduced wages. The move saw him terminate his contract at the Emirates, a sour end to his career in north London. “To the Arsenal fans,” he wrote on Instagram. “Thank you for making London home for myself and my family for the past four years. “We went through ups and downs together and your support meant everything to me. Having the chance to win trophies and the honour of being the captain of this club is something I will forever keep in my heart “I have always been 100% focused and committed on doing everything I can for this club which is why leaving without a real goodbye hurts – but that is football. “I’m sad I did not get the chance to help my teammates in the last few weeks, but I have nothing but respect for this club and truly wish all my guys and the fans all the best and many successful years in the future! “Love, Auba.” Aubameyang became one of the top earners in the Premier League after signing a lucrative new deal just 18 months ago, having helped Arsenal secure their FA Cup triumph and then posed with Arteta in the celebrations. However, their relationship worsened, with his late arrival back from a pre-agreed trip forcing the head coach to drop the frontman entirely. This stance saw him able to search for a new club, although it took until the final hours of a dramatic final day of the window for him to seal his exit.