Vanessa Obioha After a riveting and successful outing last year, the Voice Nigeria returns for its fourth season with First Bank and Airtel as headline sponsors. Auditions have already begun as aspiring and interested music talents are instructed to record a one-minute video singing without a soundtrack, upload and fill the form on the website. Only participants who are 18 years and above and have a government-issued means of identification are eligible for the singing competition. The number of entries received last year was 15,421. With new sponsors such as JAC Motors, Lush Hair and Zaron Cosmetics coming on board, the producer, UNITY 1 Limited hinted that the bar would be raised for this season. Although offering little details, the show’s reward for the ultimate winner will be higher than last season’s. The winner of the third season Esther Benyeogo who recently got married, took home N10 million cash prize, a car and a recording contract with Universal Music Nigeria. One of the milestones achieved last year was the full production of the competition in Nigeria for the first time. As such, the executive producer Akin Salami excitedly told the press at a recent parley to unveil sponsors that The Voice Nigeria now has its premises in Nigeria. This, in a way, will help reduce cost and enable seamless production. “We are beyond excited to draw open the curtain of a new season,” enthused Salami. “The third season of the show was produced in Nigeria for the first time since the inception of the show. It was definitely an outstanding show from all the local and international feedback we received. This season is coming with new and exciting twists and turns especially in a time when the Nigerian music industry continues to grow in leaps and bounds. Our aim is to continually provide a platform with international relevance for more talents and prepare them for the global stage. We are set to deliver a season like never seen before.” This year’s episodes would be fully produced by UNITY 1 Limited in collaboration with FAME TV while also partnering with ITV and YouTube.