Olusegun Samuel A renewed war among rival cult groups in Yenagoa, the Bayelsa State capital, has so far claimed five persons, including a father of four who was butchered on Sunday, at his home. Reason for the resumed hostilities among the cult groups cannot be ascertained, but sources said it might have been caused by territorial control. The five persons including the father of four, who is a suspected drug peddler, was killed in the early hours of yesterday while scores injured in a the renewed cult war between the notorious members of the Bobos and Iceland cult groups. It was gathered that the killings, which started in the early hours of yesterday at OMPADEC area of the state capital, spread to other part of the suburb known as Amarata with residents scurrying for safety. A source informed our correspondent that the killing of the suspected father of four who was a bricklayer at OMPADEC area at about 3.am by suspected Bobos cult members may have triggered the anger of the Iceland boys who controls the area in Amarata. The deceased, who is also a suspected drug peddler, who some persons claimed was a new recruit to one of the cult gangs, was reported to have had a verbal altercation with some unknown persons at a popular bar in Amarata area during a birthday party. He was said to have been trailed to his house and shot twice before he was dealt several machete cuts until his assailants make sure he was dead before escaping into the night. A neighbor , who witnessed the bloody scene in the morning said, we heard two shot fired at about 3am. And we heard voices shouting.” In retaliation, the Icelanders invaded the Ebis Mechanic base of the Bobos and shot dead one boy known as Peter in broad day light. They also dispossess residents of mobile phones and other valuables at gun point. Three others persons were also reportedly shot dead in different part of the metropolis as residents now live in fear. Reasons for the escalation of hostilities among the two rival cult groups remained unknown, but possible explanation would have been linked to the first killing. The spokesman of the Bayelsa State Police Command, Asinim Butswat, who confirmed the renewed cult clash in the state capital, said only one person was killed along the Ebis Mechanic Area with operatives of the ‘A’ Divisional headquarters investigating and searching for the deceased family.