Gbolahan Samuel Moronfolu EXTINGUISHERS The most critical aspect of deciding if you are going to attempt to extinguish a fire is to determine if you can do so without serious risk to your own safety or the safety of others. Make no mistake, fighting a fire is dangerous. By its very nature, this activity requires that you intentionally remain within, or move within close proximity to a highly hazardous environment. Care should be taken to ensure that the responder understands the dangers, the equipment to be used, as well as its limitations. The purpose of fighting a fire is to save lives and property; not to risk them needlessly. When working in an environment with an extinguisher that one may have not used before, it is recommended that a test unit be obtained, even in a group setting, so that the area of effect and limits of range and duration of use can be explored. When deciding if it is appropriate to attempt to extinguish a fire, it is important that the equipment selected matches the fire type. Mismatching the extinguisher and fire type may result in a marked increase of the fire. With this in mind, some of the more common extinguisher types and the class of fire they can be used for are as follows: Dry Chemical: These utilize a powder that is expelled from the nozzle in a stream of pressurized, non-flammable gas. Dry chemical extinguishers are usually classified as usable on Class A, B, and C fires, as it will be both effective and relatively safe in those applications. These extinguish the fire by coating the fuel of the fire making it unavailable for combustion. Carbon Dioxide: These units produce a cloud of ‘snow-like’ particles that quickly evaporate to a carbon dioxide layer. This layer reduces the available oxygen and cool the area, breaking the fire triangle commonly classified as B and C type extinguishers. Water-Based: Water is a good extinguishing agent for Class A fire, but can aggravate other types if used on burning liquids. For Class B, it can spread the fuel thus enlarging the fires. Class C – it can cause serious harm to the responder as it may conduct electrical charge causing a shock to the holder of the unit, or others standing in the runoff from it. Halogenated Units: These are referred to as “Clean agent “ extinguishers because they contain a chemical that leaves no residue upon evaporation – the cool and smoother fire making them typically unusable on Class A, B, and C fires. These are the ideal types of unit if responding to fires in computers and other delicate electrical equipment, as they are far less likely to cause damage to that equipment in the process of extinguishing the fire. Foaming Agents: These units produce a foam layer that blocks the flow of oxygen to the fire area. As such, this is very effective against Class A and B fires. Unfortunately, these often utilize a water-based agent and should not be used on Class C fires. Extinguishers should also be checked and inspected on appropriate basis. If there is high traffic in a certain area, especially open to the public, checking these daily or even on 8-hour shift might be in order. Ensure that they have been discharged or tempered with so that they will be available for use if a fire is discovered. PERMANENT EXTINGUISHING HARDWARE In addition to extinguishers that may be used by possible responders, there are more elaborate extinguishing devices that are installed into buildings. Automatic Sprinklers: These operate through a spring loaded valve that opens when exposed to certain minimum temperatures. These valves called “sprinkler heads” are located at regular intervals throughout the entire building. Once the valve opens, the feed pipe that it is attached to will continue to supply water until the control valve for that area is closed or the sprinkler head is replaced. In most systems, the feed pipe has a sensor attached to it to activate the alarm system if the water begins to flow toward an activated sprinkler head. Range Hood Systems: In kitchen areas, there are specialized systems designed to be highly effective on grease fire and other common kitchen fires but are relatively easy to use and clean. These systems can be triggered manually by anyone who observes a fire. Stand Pipes: Based on application of fire codes, most buildings have a stand pipe system that allows for the connection and supply of fire hoses. Like an extension of a fire hydrant, these allow the fire department or in-house fire brigade an available source of water. It is widely accepted that even under the best of circumstances, these types of automatic or large-scale systems usually slow or contains a fire but often do not extinguish them. As a result, it is essential that all activations are investigated with the fire department involved to ensure that the hazard is eliminated properly. CONTAINMENT In addition to the actions of responders and the utilization of various systems and equipment, there are items designed to aid the containment of fire. In most jurisdictions and within many companies, there are specific design and construction requirements with regards to the use of fire resistant building materials. Such items as fire resistant doors designed to prevent the spread of fire for a certain period of time help greatly in containment of a fire. However, to be effective, they must be placed in the proper position and work in accordance with their original design. METHOD OF FIRE EXTINCTION Fire can be extinguished by four methods namely:- 1. Cooling: Is the removal of heat from the burning substance, thereby extinguishing the fire. The extinguishing agent used is water. 2. Smothering: Oxygen is removed from the immediate surroundings of then materials on fire, hence the fire is extinguished. Smothering can be achieved through the application of the following extinguishing medium over the surface of the burning material. a. Foam compound b. Fire blanket 3. Starvation: It is the removal or limitation of fuel from fire. Starvation may be difficult to accomplish but seems to be the only option in some cases to achieve fire extinction. 4. Inhibition: This could be achieved by restraining the chemical reactions that result that result from flash over point from taking place. The application of D.C.P, water or other extinguishing medium is ideal to stop the process of chemical reactions. FIRE PLANS Designing a fire plan prior to an actual event is the most effective step in any fire prevention, fire detection, and fire response program. It is through this program that all of these factors would be addressed and in terms of the structure and detail. Developing such a plan must be a collective effort with those expected to execute the plan. Without them, the final plan may become unrealistic and difficult to implement. The written plan should include the following as a basic guide: · Emergency contact name and telephone numbers · A formal chain of command · Detailed explanation of the responsibilities of each person or department in response aspects. · An explanation of the training that personnel receive, the frequency of retraining, and the specific responsibilities bestowed as result of this training. · Chats and diagrams of the property detailing equipment locations, evacuation meeting locations, and similar fixed points. It is essential that senior management review and support the program. It is also essential that the fire marshal have a chance to review the fire plan and approves it prior to implementation. As part of a formal plan, alarm systems should be regularly inspected and tested to ensure that the components function properly. This should include activation of every sensor with the collaboration of a qualified/certified inspector or installer including the presence or approval of the fire officer. Above all, the response portion of a fire plan must be realistic in its assignments and expectations. It should be written with the following limits in mind. · Assign duties only to staff that are always on duty. If it becomes necessary to work in an area where a patrol officer is the only one on duty most times, the response plan should assume that he will be the only person for its critical assignments. It is easier to assign an extra person for a vacant function. · Write each phase with the protection of lives as the primary focus while salvaging of property becomes a secondary motivation. · Write the plan based on existing equipment and supplies.. The most important point about fire plans is that they must be put into use. What good is a plan that is exhaustively researched, designed by a security committee, approved by every member of the team and then placed on the shelf without implementation? *Moronfolu is a seasoned security consultant with many years of security and policing experience. FELLOW, Fourth Estate Professional Society (FFPS), he has also partaken in peace keeping operations within and outside the country and has flair for general security education.