Every option should be considered in order to rid the country of terrorists Governor Babagana Zulum of Borno State recently called for the hiring of mercenaries to assist in the fight against the insurgents that have for more than a decade troubled the peace of the Northeast. His position underscores growing public frustration and a burgeoning sense of helplessness by millions of Nigerians in the region. Ordinarily, the governor is not saying anything new since mercenaries have been hired and deployed not only by the armies of western countries, including the United States, but also by Mali and other countries within the continent. However, we do not believe that Zulum’s approach is helpful. We understand that the military has made tremendous gains across the Northeast theatre in the past three months. Aided by the Air Force with close air support capability, the army is now making forays into the dreaded Timbuktu Triangle in a fashion reminiscent of the mercenary’s support in 2014. It is on this score that Zulum ought to have tempered his words on matters that are clearly beyond his purview. As a politician, he is not a war commander, hence does not have the tools to identify gaps in military operations. Even where he has any strong feelings concerning the operations, Zulum should direct such observations to the president or the national security council. Because his outburst can only cast doubt on the capability of the military with consequent effect on the morale of the fighting troops. Incidentally, the same Zulum in a dramatic turn-around expressed optimism that the war against the insurgents could be over by 2023, after meeting President Muhammadu Buhari at the Villa, just a few days after his call for hiring mercenaries. We respect that Borno State which Zulum governs is on the frontline, and he feels the pinch. But we believe there are channels for passing information and raising concerns without eyes on the gallery. However, the fact that a governor is saying what Zulum said about the danger of the Islamic State’s West Africa Province (ISWAP) which displaced Boko Haram gives it more gravity. It is thus important to use the opportunity to reiterate our earlier stand that no option should be off the table in the quest to rid our country of terrorists. The federal government must continue to provide necessary support to the military through prompt acquisition of battle changing platforms, weapons and equipment, recruitment, and training to beef up the current strength. Massive recruitment is required in addition to deployment of technology to dominate vast ungoverned space in the Northeast. We must also continue to deploy diplomacy to cut all financial support to ISWAP and Boko Haram fighters using the relevant financial intelligence, sustain the relationship, cooperation, and collaboration with the countries around the Lake Chad basin (Chad, Niger, and Cameroon) and strengthen Operation Safe Corridor, which is a programme dedicated to the Disengagement, Dissociation, De-radicalisation, Rehabilitation and Reintegration (DDDRR) of surrendered and repentant Boko Haram fighters. On its part, the military must sustain the synergy and intensity in the conduct of its operations. It must take advantage of the current weather and ground conditions before the outset of the rains mid-year with its consequence on mobility. Beyond this, Nigerians must understand that it is not the military alone that is at war in the Northeast, it is the entire nation, hence the military deserves our total support. Thankfully, Zulum has demonstrated so much support to the military since his assumption of office. As President Buhari winds down his administration, he must ensure that insecurity is drastically reduced across the country as a matter of obligation, and legacy.