Eromosele Abiodun The European Union (EU) Commission has said it would continue to partner Nigeria on business opportunities, investments and other developmental issues. Executive Vice President of the European Union (EU), Ms Margrethe Vestager gave the assurance during a visit to the Minister of Industry, Trade and Investments, Adeniyi Adebayo at the Old Federal Secretariat Complex in Abuja. Vestager who is completing her 5-day working visit to Nigeria reiterated EU’s commitment to intensify cooperation with Nigeria in the areas of agri-food, energy & infrastructure. According to Ms Vestager, “I have trust in agriculture as it has the capacity to create access to trade channels that would otherwise be difficult.” She said the EU was open to holding high-level talks with Nigerian authorities with a view to knowing specific priorities that benefit the citizenry. “We are open to holding high level talks with Nigerian authorities to know specific areas of priority especially as it pertains the industrialization of the nation. In the coming days, we hope to intensify discussion that will lead to signing investment agreements with Nigeria, which will facilitate industrialization. “We have a lot of discussion going on in Europe that governments should produce in the areas that they think they have friends or next-door neighbours, and the consensus is that Nigeria qualifies because of its scope of investments and ease of doing business,” Vestager said.
The EU Vice President tasked Nigerian authorities to strengthen its competition framework to encourage companies to offer consumer goods and services on the most favourable terms, in a manner that guarantees efficiency and innovation and reduced prices. Speaking during the meeting the Minister of Industry, Trade and Investments, Adeniyi Adebayo said the focus of his ministry was industrialization programme with an overarching goal of driving job-intensive growth of the Nigerian economy through industrialization. Adebayo said the priority of the Trade and Investments Ministry is backward integration and domestication of key commodities like sugar, cassava starch, oil palm, automobile assembly and component manufacturing, cotton, textiles and garments. “Like I told you yesterday and like you have heard everywhere you have been, President Muhammadu Buhari has the goal of taking a 100million Nigerians out of poverty over the next 10 years and we believe that that can be done through industrialization. “So, we have this backward integration policy and the whole idea is to domesticate our key commodities such as sugar, cassava starch, oil palm, automobile assembly and component manufacturing, cotton, textiles and garments. The whole idea is to be self-sufficient in these areas,” Adebayo said. Speaking on the problems militating the growth of Small and Medium Enterprise (SMEs), the Minister of State for Industry, Trade and Investments, Ambassador Mariam Yelwaji Katagum listed multiple taxation, high interest rates, inadequate working capital, stiff competition from larger companies as some of the challenges confronting small businesses. Katagun said the federal government was dealing with the challenges vide business reforms, superintended by the Presidential Enabling Business Environment Council (PEBEC) chaired by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. Katagum explained that areas of collaboration existed with multilateral and private sector financing of Special Economic Zones through public-private-partnerships and greenfield development.