Segun James Beginning March 1st unvaccinated people from COVID-19 will no longer be allowed into Lagos Island, the Lagos Island Local Government has said. The Chairman of the council, Mr Adetoyese Olusi, who disclosed this Thursday, said that the executive order to that effect was signed recently after consultation with the state government. Olusi said despite the fact that only 500,000 people live on the 8.9 square kilometres island, about 13 million people come to the area between Monday and Friday every week to do business. He however lamented that as some unvaccinated visitors come to the island, it has resulted in making the area the epicentre of the pandemic in the country. The local government boss said that officials of the council will, beginning from March 1, 2022, commence the enforcement of its recently signed Executive Order 03 requiring mass vaccination and mask wearing by council employees, contractors, and “all persons in local government buildings and properties” to prevent the spread of COVID-19. He stressed that Section 2 of the Order stipulates that heads of executive departments and units (agencies) of Lagos Island Local Government shall immediately take action, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, to require compliance with Centre for Disease Control (CDC) guidelines with respect to compulsory vaccination, wearing of masks, maintaining physical distance, and other public health measures. According to him, the enforcement of the Executive Order on COVID-19 became imperative, as alleviating the impact of the pandemic was vital in preventing poverty from deepening and increasing in the country, vis-a-vis the council area. The council boss, while further justifying the new measure, noted that the city of Lagos with just 8.9sq kilometres, being the smallest in size, and the largest in Nigeria in terms of its daytime population of about 13 million people between Monday and Friday, had been confronted with the simultaneous challenge of combating the public health crisis of the pandemic alongside a weakening economy. In particular, Olusi said the impact of COVID-19 had been most strongly felt in commerce, service and agriculture sectors, adding that 79 per cent of respondents reported that their household’s total income had decreased since mid-March 2020. “It is based on this that I signed Executive Order 03 Mass Vaccination and Mask Wearing in Lagos Island Local Government. Indeed, I launched advocacy on this while enforcement will start from the 1st of March, 2022. I seek your partnership on this very important advocacy,” the council boss said. Speaking on his agenda to move the council forward, he said he is resolved to re-ignite the flame of a city where everyone is his brother’s keeper, and a city that worked for all. “We are determined to re-create several parks and sit-out areas along the Marina, bring back the lunchtime conviviality, night-leisure, and stimulate weekend life with a family amusement and recreation life supported with blue economic activities. “We intend to construct several parks in the inner neighborhood and install solar- powered lights along its roads. Upgrading city culture has become the new project on our agenda,” the chairman stated.