Alex Enumah in Abuja The Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Ibrahim Muhammad, at the weekend said the Judiciary was open to initiatives aimed at improving and strengthening the capacity of judicial officers in the handling of cases on emerging crime trend in the country. The CJN made the statement while playing host to a visiting delegation of US officials led by the Ambassador to Nigeria, Ms. Mary Leonard. The CJN in a statement by his media aide, Ahuraka Isah, identified some of the emerging crimes, to include cybercrime, cross-jurisdictional infringement of Intellectual property rights, and cases related to cybersecurity and espionage. The CJN added that judges in the country required training on block technology and online dispute resolution as it affects e-commerce which is becoming a challenge due to inadequate awareness of technology and technical abilities and capacity. He accordingly requested for workshops that would border on Copyright Law in the new digital environment for judicial officers and enforcement of Foreign Arbitral Awards relating to intellectual property disputes. “Capacity building for our judicial officers is our priority, while the development of the capacity of our Research Assistants and other staff of the National Judicial Institute, who are fully involved in these training programmes, is also very important. “Your Excellency, without taking the cat out of your bag, I want to assure you that our doors are always wide open to welcome proposals that will be beneficial to the development of the Rule of Law and the overall growth of the Judiciary of this country. “The National Judicial Institute will never relent in its efforts to serve as the principal focal point of judicial activities on issues relating to the promotion of efficiency, uniformity and improvement in the quality of judicial services in our courts,” the CJN stated. In his remarks, the US Ambassador stated that the visit was an opportunity to encourage the Nigerian Judiciary to continue collaborating with the United States Mission, including in raising the profile of intellectual property (IP) protection which is essential for Nigeria’s development and international partnerships. She disclosed that her country was planning to increase its capacity-building engagement on cybersecurity issues, adding that the United States of America was interested in continued collaboration with the Judiciary and courts through its International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs Office (INL) and Office of Overseas Prosecutorial Development, Assistance and Training (OPDAT). Leonard hinted that the US was exploring how best to support Nigeria’s judicial processes during the 2023 elections.
The Justices of the Supreme Court, who accompanied the CJN to receive the US delegation were Justice Olukayode Ariwoola, Inyang Okoro, Amina Augie, Ejembi Eko, Uwani Abba-Aji, Mohammed Garba, Helen Ogunwumiju, Abdu Aboki, Adamu Jauro and Emmanuel Agim. Others were the Administrator of NJI, Justice Salisu Abdullahi, President of National Industrial Court, Justice Benedict Kanyip, Secretary of National Judicial Council, Ahmed Sale, NJI Secretary, Abubakar Maidama and the Acting Chief Registrar of the Supreme Court, Hajio Bello.