A coalition of accredited independent observers for the 2022 Local Government Elections held in Enugu State, yesterday expressed satisfaction with the conduct of the exercise in the state, describing it as “peaceful, transparent, free and fair.” Speaking to newsmen after the elections, the National Coordinator, Forum of Civil Society Organisations (FCSOs) in Nigeria, Comrade Fidelis Nweke, maintained that the elections were peaceful, transparent and orderly in the various local government areas they visited. They commended Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State for his consistency in conducting council elections in the state, describing the governor as “a true democrat who had effectively ended the use of caretaker chairmen in running the affairs of the local government areas in Enugu State”. Flanked by the National President, Centre for Positive Change and Civic Responsibility, Amb. Chinyere Manukwem and the Executive Director, Centre for Strategy, Ethics and Value, Mr. Romanus Azubuike, the FCSOs National Coordinator, Comrade Nweke, disclosed that the Enugu State Independent Electoral Commission (ENSIEC) improved tremendously on its electoral process. Adding that the materials and other logistics arrived the polling units on time as their officials displayed a high sense of professionalism. “I want to say that the elections we observed today were generally peaceful, because you cannot describe any election in Nigeria as being credible, as being fair without first of all being peaceful. “It was a peaceful election, so we are happy to see this kind of election in Enugu State. “We also want to say here that some states in Nigeria should replicate what we have seen in Enugu State. This is because there are some states in Nigeria that have not conducted LGA elections for the past ten (10) years. It really shows that Rt. Hon. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi is a true democrat”. Also speaking, Manukwem of Centre for Positive Change and Civic Responsibility, added that the Enugu State LG elections “went peacefully and there was also a large turnout of voters”, stressing: “We are also impressed with the Enugu people, they came out peacefully and cast their votes”. On his part, the Executive Director of Centre for Strategy, Ethics and Value, Mr. Azubuike, applauded ENSIEC for its efficiency and transparency of the elections as well as the electoral body’s good relationship with the observers. Meanwhile, gunmen attacked journalists working with the Enugu State Broadcasting Service, (ESBS). The gunmen, whose identities remain unknown, were said to have attacked the Journalists in the Obeagu area of the state while they were on their way to Agbani in Nkanu West LG to cover the election. Among those attacked were the driver, a cameraman and three reporters working with ESBS and a News Agency of Nigeria, NAN reporter. But while two of the ESBS reporters and their driver have been rescued, two reporters remain missing.