Peter Uzoho Some experts in the Nigerian power sector have called for the review of the pricing of prepaid meters and resolution of issues around port congestion as well as political and other risks that may affect the deployment of meters under the Phase 1 of the National Mass Metering Programme (NMMP). The experts specifically highlighted the logistics in moving meters from one place to another and the political risk associated with the coming 2023 general elections, saying those concerns should be addressed as they are critical to the success of the programme. The power experts made the call at the Power Dialogue held in Abuja, with the theme: “Assessing the Progress of the National Mass Metering Programme”. Speaking at the forum, Chief Executive Officer, New Hampshire Capital Limited, Mr. Odion Omonfoman, stated that NMMP had been the most successful mass metering intervention introduced so far in terms of the number of meters installed for Nigerians. Omonfoman said: “The NMMP is directly responsible for a rapid increase in local capacity in metering, particularly local meter manufacturing and assembly capacity and meter installation capacity. “I would score the NMMP phase zero high. The NMMP is not the first metering intervention by the federal government. In fact, there were several mass metering interventions under the defunct Power Holding Company of Nigeria (PHCN). “There were also others under the former Presidents Olusegun Obasanjo and Goodluck Jonathan’s governments, but none of them was able to make so much positive impact. Let me recognise and commend the team that managed the implementation.” He also said that although phase zero was adjudged successful, it recorded some issues, including the incorrect declaration of meter quantities in-country by a few meter vendors and the difficulty associated with the logistics of clearing meters at the ports. He insisted that potential risk, including foreign exchange for the procurement of meter components, port congestion, litigations with local meter manufacturers that could arise in the future, and the risk of bad behaviour by local meter manufacturers and Discos should be looked into before the next phase of the NMMP begins. Similarly, Special Assistant to the President on Power Regulation, Office of the Vice President, Dr. Ali Yusuf, highlighted the gains and achievements of the NMMP, as well as some of the challenges in phase zero, adding that it would serve as learning points in the implementation of Phase 1.