Juliet Akoje The House of Representatives’ Public Accounts Committee has summoned the heads of the Bureau for Public Enterprises (BPE), the Nigeria Oil and Gas Free Zone Authority (NOGFZA), as well as the Standard Organisation of Nigeria (SON) over the loss of billions of naira in revenue from companies operating in the oil free zones as contained in audit queries issued by the office of the Auditor General for the Federation. It also directed its clerk to publish the said audit queries from the office against defaulting agencies in three national dailies for the public, as well as for the president to see. The committee rulings was sequel to the reports of the Auditor General for the Federation detailing several infractions by government Ministries, Departments and Agencies submitted to it for legislative action. The Chairman of the Committee, Hon. Oluwole Oke (PDP, Osun) at the resumed investigation of Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) yesterday lamented the attitude of relevant government agencies who he said abdicated their statutory responsibilities of generating revenue for government whilst Nigeria goes cap-in-hand looking for loans from foreign countries and creditors to finance the nation’s annual budgets He said the purpose of the publication was to enable Nigerians and President Muhammadu Buhari see and know those agencies sabotaging government’s efforts to make life better for the citizenry. He lamented that a situation where the country keeps suffering the loss of revenue through non issuance of receipts for payments made to oil and gas free zone authority, fraudulent practices on issuance of certificates of acceptance on capital allowances by the Inspectorate Division of the Ministry of Trade and Industry was unfortunate and unacceptable. “We have invited all the regulators, the Federal Ministry of Industry, Oil and Gas Free Zone Authority, Onne, Standard Organisation of Nigerian and they are supposed to appear today. “But they are not here. All the companies listed by the regulators, some of them are here, but the regulators are not here. From the evidences presented by these companies, we discovered that a company’s capital allowances rose from N4 billion to N33 billion within a year and they brought the certificate here for us to see. “We called the Ministry of Industry to come and confirm whether they issued the certificate or not. If you issued a certificate for a foreign asset, an asset acquired outside the country, at least, there will be import duty, there will be receipt. Ministry of Industry, did you inspect the asset before you issued certificate of N33 billion? “Those are the questions we are asking ministry of industry to come and answer. They have refused to come. “Oil and Gas Free Zone Authority collected money in dollars from licenses and refused to issue receipt to them. All the licenses that have appeared before this panel said they were not issued receipts. “Oil and gas free zone, come and tell Nigerians why you did not issue them receipts and where is our money? The Minister of Finance has said severally that we will continue to borrow money to finance our budget because we have revenue gaps and because we are unable to collect the revenue we should have collected. “The parliament cannot fold its hands. The difference between tax evasion and tax avoidance is very narrow. So, our ruling is that I want us to publish all the queries in three national dailies and all the regulators concerned and licensees who made allegations that they paid XYZ,” the chairman ruled. He added that while the committee was not out to witch-hunt anyone or agency, but was interested in finding out if the enabling laws were no longer active and obsolete, so as to enable the parliament enact new ones to enhance performance and economic growth.