Sylvester Idowu in Warri In a bid to ensure that students of the school do not engage in addictions that could affect their studies, the Petroleum Training Institute (PTI) Effurun, Delta State, has warned its 1,267 newly matriculated students against involving themselves in any form of social vices. Speaking during the matriculation ceremony for the 2021/2022 academic session yesterday, Principal and Chief Executive Officer of the Institute, Dr. Henry Adimula, said that the school had zero-tolerance for cultism, drug abuse and other social vices, and would sanction any of its students found wanting. “We advise all students to desist from the following vices: examination misconduct, physical and all forms of assault, cultism, drug peddling and smoking of Indian hemp on campus, certificate forgery, improper dressing, for exposure of body parts, stealing, misuse of social media and many others. Let me sound a note of warning that any student found guilty in any of the vices would be made to face the full wrath of the law,” he warned. While congratulating the matriculated students, Dr. Adimula disclosed that “a total of 1,480 candidates applied for admission into the National Diploma programmes but only 720 candidates were offered admission and for Higher National Diploma, 714 applied and only 547 candidates were admitted”. The Principal and CEO said PTI had trained over 20,000 Nigerians and non Nigerians, who are doing very well in every facet of the oil, gas and allied industries in the country and all over the world. Adimula, who was flanked by members of the council of the Institute, urged the matriculating students to maximise available resources which abound in the school to their advantage, saying the management would integrate e-learning platforms with the actual modules to further mitigate COVID-19 realities. While admonishing the matriculants to be good ambassadors in and outside the school, he enjoined them to take a cue from alumni such as Dr. Celestine Paddy Iyamu, Dr. Excel Ukpohor and Comrade Festus Osifo, the current President of PENGSSAN, who graduated at various times and are now very successful in their chosen careers.