Adibe Emenyonu Ahead of the national convention of the All Progressives Congress (APC) slated for February 26, 2022, youths of the party from the South-south zone yesterday called for unity among members of the party, demanding that young people should be given opportunities to occupy leadership positions in the party and opportunities in government. Speaking at the zonal youth leadership, sensitisation and capacity building meeting for newly elected youth leaders of the party in Benin-city, Edo State, the South-South Youth Leader of the APC, Gabriel Iduseri, also commended the Governor Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) of the party which activities he said led to the successful conduct of ward, local government and state congresses that would climax with the national convention. Iduseri said: “We the youths of the APC in the South-south zone are ready for the next level the party is going to as we have come together as one family to preach unity and at the same time work together for the progress of the party and the country. “We are also clamouring for inclusiveness in the party and the governance of the country. “We all know that the journey of the APC in the last four years has been difficult with divergent interests but here we are standing together again, ready to carry on and change the narratives of our zone. “There is nothing that is as strong as a united house, a united party and a united zone. My message to the leaders of APC in the South-south zone is that they need to be united in their political approach because a divided house cannot achieve anything meaningful, just as nothing good can come out of a war torn zone.” He also noted: “I want to congratulate all the elected youth leaders who were elected in the last congress from the ward, local government and the state level. “Remember that as a leader, you are saddled with lots of responsibilities, and as the shining ambassador of the party, you have a task to ensure that our party is put on winning ways because only winners can celebrate and losers are not known. “Therefore, I charge you to set your foot on the right path of winning elections and facilitating benefits of good governance to your constituencies.” Delivering a lecture at the event, a member of the 14 lawmakers in Edo State yet to be inaugurated, Washington Osifo, urged the APC youth leaders to be bold and courageous and be ready “to interrogate those who are in power. Any youth who lacks the courage to interrogate is not worthy of holding any office because the power belongs to you.”