By Hammed Shittu in Ilorin A pregnant woman and eight others yesterday morning were burnt to death in a multiple auto crash in Ilorin metropolis, the state capital of Kwara state. THISDAY checks revealed that the multiple fatal accident, which occurred at the Ilorin International Airport road along Ilorin-Ogbomoso expressway at about 8:00 am, involved a commercial passenger bus and a private vehicle. It was gathered that, one of the vehicles involved in the crash was said to have carried petrol-filled kegs. It was further learnt that one of the vehicles involved is ash colour Toyota Corolla car with vehicle registration number LRN 787 FE whose driver had no national driver’s licence, while the second one is white colour Toyota Hiace commercial bus, whose driver also had no national driver’s licence. A total number of 20 people including eight males and 12 females were said to have been involved in the crash, while one male and eight females were reported dead. It was also gathered that eight male persons, however, survived in the accident with burns and multiple injuries. The sources in the state command of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) said that the Lagos-bound passenger bus had loaded at the Gerin Alimi motor park, heading outwards the metropolis, when it rammed into the private vehicle. The private vehicle, said to be coming out of the airport, failed to wait for the oncoming passenger bus to pass, while the crash, said to have occurred as a result of over-speeding. It was gathered that the vehicles involved somersaulted before bursting into flames. Speaking on the incident, the state sector commander of the FRSC, Jonathan Owoade, confirmed the development and described the crash as unfortunate. “A car coming out of the airport ran across the road, thinking it could have crossed the road before the bus gets to it. Incidentally, it was said that it was carrying fuel. “I would surely get back to you with details, including registration numbers of the vehicles”, he said. The sector commander also said that the injured persons had been taken to the state general hospital, Ilorin by passersby before his men arrived at the scene of the crash. He therefore, added that the deceased were taken to the University of Ilorin Teaching Hospital (UITH) mortuary, Oke Oyi by the FRSC rescue and the patrol teams.