HighLife Politics has been accused time and again of fostering strange bedfellows. Maybe wedding parties and burials are similarly guilty of this charge. Why else would acclaimed socialite and entrepreneur Obi Cubana (real name Obinna Iyiegbu) seemingly tie the knots of friendship with the popular police officer Abba Kyari, especially considering the latter’s newfound status as the first police officer to be dragged between the Nigerian and United States governments? Or could it be the cause for this fatal attraction? Kyari is not having the time of his life. As someone who at one point was celebrated by the entire nation, Kyari has taken a deep plunge into disgrace. But hark, who goes there? It is Cubana to the rescue. Or so it seems to onlookers. After all, Cubana has shown himself to be someone who does not care much for public opinion. Thus, as Kyari faces possible jail time for alleged drug trafficking, the limelight shifts to Cubana and the question of his possible involvement lingers on the mind of everyone. Kyari is from Borno State and has been working in law enforcement forever. Cubana, on the other hand, is an Anambra man with his fingers in the hospitality industry. But for social media, only a handful might have known that Kyari and Cubana have some sort of connection. The wedding of the son of the Inspector-General of Police exposed this. It was at the wedding that Cubana stood beside Kyari for a photo and afterwards exchanged pleasantries as one might expect of friends or associates. Or so it seemed. And so the social media space in Nigeria is currently buzzing with speculations of the links between Kyari and Cubana. Arguably, since Cubana buried his deceased mother in the grandest way possible, many Nigerians began to look at him sideways. Add that to his sidling up to Kyari and you might come up with even worse conjectures about his complicity in shady things. But these are just suppositions at the end of the day. Then again, who would have expected the pair of Instagram super celebrity Hushpuppi and Kyari? Just conjectures.