Statutory delegates of the Peoples Democratic Party(PDP) from Ikot Ekpene Senatorial District yesterday threw their weight behind the 2023 Governorship aspiration of the Commissioner for Lands and Water Resources, Pastor Umo Eno. The adoption followed a unanimous decision by the delegates that Pastor Eno be endorsed as the sole candidate of the group. The group, who made their position known during a consultation visit by the Umo Eno Governorship Campaign Organisation at the Martha Udom’s Hall, Ikot Ekpene said their decision to endorse Pastor Eno is borne out of their resolve to sustain the prevailing peace in Ikot Ekpene Senatorial District and the State by ensuring they offer their total and unalloyed support and solidarity to Governor Udom Emmanuel’s Completion Agenda to aid continuity, consolidation and economic prosperity. The adoption which gives Pastor Eno guaranteed votes from PDP statutory delegates from Oruk Anam, Ukanafun, Abak, Etim Ekpo, Ika, Essien Udim, Ikot Ekpene, Obot Akara, Ikono and Ini Local Government Areas, translates to about 35 per cent of anticipated total votes cast by delegates from the ten (10) local government areas at the forthcoming PDP primaries. Speaking, the DG, Umo Eno Campaign Organization, Amb Assam Assam, SAN, thanked the delegates for their loyalty to the party, which according to him, was why they were found worthy to hold various offices at the wards and local government chapters. He told the delegates that Pastor Eno is the one who would ensure they continue to reap the dividends of their offices as deserving party officers and charged them to line up and vote one way for Pastor Eno at the forthcoming PDP Governorship primaries. Also speaking, the National Chairman, Maintain Peace Movement, MPM, Hon Barr Emmanuel Enoidem, thanked the statutory delegates for their steadfastness to the party and admonished them to keep faith with the Governor who stood by them to emerge as party officers, declaring that it is their turn to reciprocate the gesture by casting their votes for Pastor Eno as governor Emmanuel’s successor. Addressing the delegates, the gubernatorial hopeful, Pastor Eno, admonished the delegates to stand with the governor by supporting him, promising to continue to take care of the welfare and well-being of all PDP delegates, even after the elections. “Delegates will be accommodated in my administration as a way to enhance welfare. “The future of Akwa Ibom is in your hands. I pray that for the sake of God you’ll use that vote wisely so that our youths will have jobs, Ikot Ekpene will become a business hub and we will sustain the prevailing peace and prosperity of Akwa Ibom State,” he stated. Goodwill messages were received from the ten Chapter Chairmen in Ikot Ekpene Senatorial District who all pledged their total support, loyalty and solidarity to the Umo Eno 2023 Governorship project.