Udora Orizu in Abuja The House of Representatives has urged the Chief of Army Staff, Lt Gen. Farouk Yahaya and the Inspector General of Police, Mr. Usman Alkali Baba, to ensure thorough investigation into the February 12, 2022, invasion of five communities in Ahiazu Local Government Area of Imo State by law enforcement agents, with a view to unravel the perpetrators of the act, reason for the invasion and number of lives and properties destroyed. The Army Chief and the IG were also asked to unravel why communities that are not at war must be razed without recourse to the excruciating effect of rendering the innocent homeless as well as depriving the living their breadwinners. The resolutions followed the adoption of a motion of urgent public importance sponsored by Hon. Emeka Chinedu, at the plenary yesterday. Moving the motion, Chinedu noted that Ihitteafoukwu, Umu Okirika, Oparanadim, Mpam, and Ogbor Umeze have been peaceful and quiet communities in Ahiazu Mbaise/Ezinihitte Federal Constituency, whose citizens are known for agrarian values and industriousness. He also noted with serious concern, the alleged invasion, siege, unlawful arrest and wanton destruction of lives and properties belonging to indigenes of the five communities by armed men suspected to be law enforcement agents. He said the House is aware that such gestapo invasion, siege and wanton destruction of lives and properties after sporadic shootings is expanding in scope and frequency in the country, especially in Imo State. He expressed concerns that Nigerians are increasingly losing hope and confidence in the Nation’s law enforcers due to their high-handedness, unethical conducts and total disregard for rule of law and engagements. The lawmaker stressed that the fight against unlawful activities or any form of criminality, must be anchored on rule of law as enshrined in the 1999 constitution as amended, especially when human lives and properties are involved. He said: “Worried that the danger inherent in one-sided narrative as often packaged by law enforcement agents in such circumstances without thorough investigation is not only unhealthy for democracy, but also an intolerable affront to fundamental human rights, especially where law enforcement agents can recklessly invade, attack, destroy and maim before coming up with some frame-up to rationalize extra judicial activities. “Also worried that further delay in investigating matters of this nature may not only send complicating signals, but also be counterproductive at the long run, especially as law enforcement agents, just like their counterparts around the world, do not have the inalienable right to act lawlessly, waste lives or plunder properties of the people they are paid to protect.” Adopting the motion, the House mandated its committee on Police Affairs and Army to ensure compliance.