 Mary Nnah Lagos-based international health and hospitality brands, Duchess International Hospital and the Lagos Marriot Hotel have come together to pioneer the first-ever three-day comprehensive medical screening and disease prevention services in Nigeria. Known as the Duchess Royal Medical Check-Up, it is a premium executive health check programme aimed at promoting affordable access to health and preventing the onset of chronic diseases. Speaking at the launch of the programme in Lagos at the weekend, Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Duchess International Hospital Dr. Adetokunbo Shitta-Bey, said Nigerians travel all over the world to countries such as Germany, the United States, and major cities such as Dubai in search of comprehensive health screening, disease prevention services and treatments for a variety of long-term (chronic) diseases, all of which are offered exclusively at the Duchess International Hospital. He noted further that the hospital’s mission is to reverse medical tourism by delivering the highest standards of care, using the most advanced technology and treatments “to give our clients the fastest, most convenient access to the best medical expertise available anywhere in the world”. According to Shitta-Bey, the Duchess Royal Check-up programme comprises of a three-day American/European-style full-body medical assessment and complete clinical evaluation focused on early detection of disease and prevention of long-term ill health in both men and women. “It uses the most advanced testing technology and specialised medical expertise to deliver the best clinical outcomes on behalf of our clients based on their lifestyle, age, and complete medical history,” he said. Dr. Shitta-Bey who described programme as a wellness and lifestyle screening noted that people don’t have to be sick before coming for screening. He explained further that the Royal Medical check-up screening programme is very affordable with the basic ones starting from N50,000 while the cost for high-end screening is based on peculiar medical needs and budget. Managing Director, Mac-Folly Hospitality Limited, owners of Lagos Marriot Hotel, Mr.Chike Ogeah explained that the Duchess Royal Medical Check-Up which is delivered in collaboration with the Lagos Marriott Hotel is carefully designed to address the needs and circumstances of individuals and busy executives residing in metropolitan cities across Nigeria and West Africa. He noted further that it provides a high level of service comparable to standards observed in tourist destinations such as Dubai, Europe, and the United States, and offers the significant economic advantage of conserving much-needed foreign exchange. According to him, providence has brought the two brands together as they are sited a few metres from each other on Joel Ogunnaike , GRA, Ikeja hence the synergy to give Nigerians the best of services from the two organisations.