Adedayo Akinwale in Abuja A support group, the Project Nigeria Group (PNG) has said that the Minister of State for Education, Chukwuemeka Nwajiuba, is the best All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential aspirant ahead of the 2023 elections. The National Coordinator Project, Prof. Armayau Bichi, stated this yesterday at a press conference in Abuja with the theme: ‘2023 Presidency, Chukwuemeka Nwajiuba as APC’s Best’. Bichi, who was represented by the Co- convener, Ms. Nana Onwodi, said they were not acting based on the directive of Nwajiuba, but they were acting with the conviction that Nwajuiba is the best thing to happen to this country in 2023. He stated: “Chukwuemeka Nwajiuba is the man the job needs and not the man that needs the job. He’s one of the best from the rest of aspirants for Nigeria’s 2023 presidency. “We are presenting a man of vision and an astute fellow full of developmental ideas and cohesive reasonings. We are presenting to our country, Nigeria a man who is a bridge builder between the young and the old, the North and the South and the various ethnic and religious diversities. “He has the energy and strength to occupy the Nigerian Presidency and meet up the demands of such office at a time like this.” He has the needed character, capacity, candour, competence and capability for the exalted office.” Bichi noted that Nwajiuba is an Igbo in acts and pacts, but with a vision to use his Igboness to take the nation in greater strides. He added: “In the East, he is the star, in the West he is the starlight and in the North he is the galaxy. He is the force for the breaking off of hatred and ethnicism and building up strong alliances for our national development. “The real question now is: What are we looking for in the actualisation of a Nigerian President of South-east Extraction or how do we actualise the dream of a Nigerian President of South-east extraction? There’s no other voice so loud and clear and no other selfless leader so committed to the growth of our nation like Chukwuemeka Nwajiuba.” On his part, the former Speaker of Imo State House of Assembly, Hon. Amachi Nwoha, stressed the need to cede the presidency to the South-east. He argued that the call was aimed at giving Nigerians of Ndigbo extraction a sense of belonging. Nwoha noted that it behooves the ruling party to adhere to the provision of the 1999 Constitution (as amended) that stresses the need to treat Nigerians in a fair and just manner. He noted: “The issues are the prerogative of political parties. We need to carry every part of this country along. We want unity and peace. The constitution recognises fairness, equity, and federal character. APC is not unaware of this fact. “It’s commonly agreed that for the purposes of equity, fairness and unity, the South-east zone ought to be considered.”