Yinka Olatunbosun Professionals in the Nigerian theatre have continued to re-tell Nigerian history creatively through drama, dance, and music while celebrating the nation’s varied yet unique cultures. Through stage plays, these artistic professionals have projected Nigerian stories to a mass audience within and outside the Nigerian shores. Recently, MTN Nigeria through its Foundation partnered with three theatre professionals to produce three stage plays; ‘Death and the King’s Horseman,’ ‘Ufok Ibaan,’ and ‘Osamede the Play.’ ‘Death and the King’s Horseman,’ the classic tragedy by Prof Wole Soyinka, was produced in partnership with Bolanle Austen-Peters. The play, based on true life events, captured the event that took place in the ancient town of Oyo during World War II, when Nigeria was a British colony. The king has died and Elesin Oba, the chief horseman, sets on the traditional ritual that is deemed essential to the smooth transition of the late king to the world beyond. The story takes a dramatic turn for the king’s horseman and his family when the British colonial officer attempts to stop the ritual from happening. Whilst reflecting on the play, the producer, Bolanle Austen-Peters, remarked that the play is about culture clash. “The story is deep, now I understand why Prof. Soyinka got the Nobel Prize for Literature. I also went deep. I became Elesin Oba! I had to get into Elesin’s head,” said Austen-Peters. Another production, ‘Ufok Ibaan’ produced in partnership with the Duke of Shomolu Productions was staged in Uyo, Akwa-Ibom State. It is a dramatic account of the Ikot Abasi Women’s Uprising that led to the cringe-worthy massacre of 500 women under colonial rule in 1929. The producer, Joseph Edgar, observed that the play “positioned Nigerian women as notable forces to be reckoned with during the Nigerian colonial era.” “This play focuses on the experiences of the Ikot Abasi women led by Madam Adiaha Edem Abia. Through music, dances and dramatic sequences, it brings to life the brave actions of women who stood against financial oppression albeit with tragic consequences. The play is a heartfelt celebration of Ufok Ibaan – the collective strength of women,” Edgar added. Senator Udo Udoma, whose grandmother, Madam Adiaha Idem was said to have led the protest and was killed in the uprising, was present at the play and he recapped the story as told to him by his father (late sir Udo Udoma). ‘Osamede’ was produced in partnership with Lilian Olubi of Lillygates Productions. Drawn from the Benin language, the title `Osamede’ means ‘who the King has crowned.’ It is the story of an orphan girl who went from obscurity to the palace and risked her life to redeem the people of her community from a life of oppression through her remarkable courage. Lillian Olubi, Executive Producer of Osamede the stage play, while speaking about the play, said Osamede is a story that speaks in many ways to a problem and a solution. The play tells the story about a woman of courage who was favoured, had an opportunity of influence to try and bring change to her community. “The overarching theme of Osamede revolves around nationhood, societal injustices and how we can make changes when we have the opportunity,” said Lillian Olubi. In all, the three theatre productions done in partnership with MTN Foundation gave an opportunity to appreciate Nigeria’s history, celebrate Nigerian culture and create opportunities for young Nigerian creatives in arts and culture through dramatic storytelling.