Emma Okonji
The sub-Saharan Africa distributor of tech, lifestyle and cutting-edge solutions, TD Africa, has unveiled plans to engender a mindset shift and contribute to harnessing the latent potential of Nigeria’s female population by empowering over 10 million women by 2025. The Chief Executive, TD Africa, Mrs. Chioma Ekeh, who disclosed the initiative in Lagos recently, said the first group of beneficiaries of the women empowerment initiative would be the wives of junior employees drawn from TD Africa and other companies in the Zinox Group. To flag off the project, the women had earlier toured the office facilities in Gbagada followed by another elaborate tour of the state-of-the-art Tech Experience Centre located in Yudala Heights, Victoria Island, Lagos. Mrs. Ekeh, while receiving the first set of beneficiaries at Yudala Heights, charged them to channel their minds with positive thoughts and be courageous to take firm actions, regardless of the circumstances. She used the peculiar traits of the TD Africa brand symbol – depicted by a lion head known as Simba, as staff of the company are addressed – as an analogy to buttress her point. “Women must remain strong, courageous and tenacious, just like the Simba. As the bedrock of the society, they should never allow their past experiences, no matter how bad, dictate their future. They must take learnings from the experiences and rise above their challenges,’’ she advised.
Further, Mrs. Ekeh urged the women to steer clear of unnecessary distractions and unhealthy competition with no one. “Continually work on improving yourself, all the time. That is enough. The results will show in good time too. It is also important to have the ‘I can do’ mindset. It is only in the doing that the deeds get done. So, get up and go. Go do it. As important as money is, empowerment is not all about that. Sharing ideas, sharing authentic stories, training, mentoring are some other more enduring ways to empower,’’ she said.
Speaking on the objectives and vision of the project, Mrs. Ekeh stated it would positively affect millions of women in the coming years, while urging them to take advantage of the numerous opportunities that abound from the initiative. Citing the research report from Knoema global data platform, which indicated that in 2021, the female population for Nigeria stood at about 104 million, and that over the last 50 years, the female population in Nigeria grew substantially from 29.3 million to 104 million persons, rising at an increasing annual rate that reached a maximum of 2.98 per cent in 1978 and then decreased to 2.54 per cent in 2021, Mrs. Ekeh is of the view that the foregoing makes a conscious effort to engage Nigerian women.