Sunday Aborisade, Abuja The STEM Damsel Network, has warned Nigerian parents against the girl child gender stereotypes and cultural practices that could threaten their future careers. The nongovernmental organisation said discouraging the girls from studying courses in Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics, could have negative impacts in their careers. It insisted that doing so could adversely affect their careers in the future. The Founder of the group, Ekenedilichukwu Okolie, gave the warning in a statement made available to our correspondent in Abuja on Saturday. She condemned the socio-cultural challenges facing the girl child, especially in Africa. She said the STEM Damsel Network had restated the campaign during a One-Day Sensitisation for Girls in Secondary Schools in Abuja it organised to commemorate the International Day of Women and Girls in Science.’ Okolie said that the event was aimed at sensitising female students on careers in Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics. She said it was also aimed at encouraging investments in teacher training, inspiring parents to sponsor their girls to study STEM-related courses as well as boosting self-confidence and esteem of the girls. She added that the event was attended by over 150 students along with teachers, parents and volunteers. Part of the statement read, “In Nigeria, like other parts of sub-Saharan Africa, there is a wide gender gap in STEM. Gender stereotypes, cultural norms and lack of mentorship are some of the factors that continually dampen the interest of girls in STEM, resulting in low representation of women in STEM careers. “However, with the 4th Industrial Revolution, the reality of the post-COVID ‘New Normal,’ digitalisation and globalisation; all of these trends have sparked radical shifts in how we live and work. ” The jobs of the future will be driven by technology and innovation; and careers in STEM offers so much more for our girls, especially economic empowerment which will help us towards achieving most of the sustainable development goals. “Therefore, denying girls the opportunities to study STEM-related courses reduces their chances of securing better jobs in the future, thereby perpetuating poverty amongst women. “As part of our Sustainability Plan, we unveiled The STEM Damsel Mentorship Clinic which is built on a research-based strategic teaming model to increase the likelihood that participating students will pursue STEM careers as well as expose the young girls to female STEM Mentors and professionals. “We intend to work in partnership with educators, government agencies and corporate organisations as we continue to sensitise our young girls/parents on career opportunities in STEM through advocacy and teachers training.” The statement further quoted the Lead Consultant, Market3 Consulting, Enoch Haruna, to have stated that “STEM is the future and not just the future.” Haruna reportedly said, “The highest paid jobs are STEM-based and are also the highest in demand. Therefore, one of the tactics to end the poverty cycle within communities and the nation at large will be to ensure that our women are equipped to compete in STEM careers as we all agree that with women in STEM, we open up the science space for women at the apex. A self-esteem advocate, Ejiro Alechenu, was also quoted to have encouraged young girls on the need to be self-aware, observant and conscious mentally, physically, negatively and positively. “This is very important for the girls even in their STEM journey as it impacts how they see themselves and how they grow to be confident even in a male-dominated space,” he said. The Founder and Creative Director, Tristetix, Dahlia Akhaine, also spoke on sustainable future, the skills needed to build a sustainable future through STEM-strong leadership skills, coding skills, data management skills, communication skills, relationship building skills and long term thinking skills. The Proprietress, Seed of Greatness and Excellence Academy, Rev. Mrs. Agboola, reiterated the need for continuous STEM education not only for our girls but also for parents/guardians, communities and the society at large. This, she said, would help break the stereotypes and cultural norms that have consistently dampened the interest of girls in STEM.