Blessing Ibunge in Port Harcourt The Rivers State Government yesterday launched the Basic Education Certificate (BEC) to replace First School Leaving Certificate (FSLC) that has been in existence in the state. The state Commissioner for Education, Prof Kaniye Ebeku, who made the announcement in Port Harcourt said the unveiling of BEC was in line with the federal government’s extant policy on education, adding that employers should not be asking for First School Leaving Certificate anymore but BEC. The commissioner also disclosed that since 2006, the Rivers State Government has not issued BEC to students, adding that the state was now leading the way for other states to follow. “So today, we are sending message to the world that we will no longer issue the First School Leaving Certificate. Students must write the Basic Education Certificate Examinations to obtain BEC. “The first certificate that will be issued to a child will now be BEC, after the students must have sat for the Basic Education Certificate Examinations at basic nine. “There is no more FSLC. Students cannot proceed to senior secondary schools without the BEC. “Since 2006, BEC has not been issued in Rivers State but it can be issued now on demand. Anyone claiming to have BED from 2006 upwards is fake. The ministry is available to verify all certificates from 1960 till date. “BEC cannot be forged; the certificate has some embossment that will make it difficult for fraudsters to replicate. Besides, the masters list is with the ministry. Any fraudster caught will be dealt with in accordance with the Nigerian laws,” he stated. The Chairman of Rivers State Senior Secondary School Board, Dr. Ade Wisdom, said the development was a major milestone, while describing the commissioner as a silent achiever. On his part, the President of All Nigerian Confederation of Principals of Secondary Schools (ANCOPSS), Mr. Ewoh Gordon, said the unveiling of BEC would put an end to certificate racketeering, calling for wide publicity.