Kemi Olaitan in Ibadan The Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi, has advised traditional rulers and political leaders to use their positions to strengthen the unity of the country for the benefit of all citizens. The monarch, who spoke in his palace in Oyo at the weekend, during the conferment of traditional chieftaincy title of “Fiwajoye of Yorubaland” on the Managing Director, National Inland Waterways Authority (NIWA), Mr. George Moghalu, said that the time has come to build bridges across ethnic and geo political zones of the county in order to foster oneness among the people. He said he conferred the title on Moghalu, an Igbo man, to show that irrespective of tribe a good Nigerian deserves to be honoured, noting that with the leaders promoting the unity of the country Nigerians would see themselves as one. According to him, all the foremost value system of Yoruba people were observed before considering him for the chieftaincy title, stating that he considered the high level of his knowledge, wisdom, integrity and understanding. He added that other qualities Moghalu possessed included ability to lead with courage in the face of danger, having means of livelihood and honor for the elders. The first class royal father said: “It is a known fact that chieftaincy conferment in Oyo, the centre of Yoruba culture and political development, has never been arbitrary or random. It is based on meticulous investigation and thorough scrutiny grounded on integrity, visible role, modeling, patriotism and without any ethnic or cultural bias. “Anyone to be conferred with a Yoruba chieftaincy title must be above board in every way. He must be a national role model in all ramifications. In this man has been found all the five principle values of ancient and modern Yoruba land; a great patriot and nation builder.” Moghalu, in his acceptance speech, thanked Oba Adeyemi for the honour, assuring him that he would use the position to further foster the unity of the country as he is now a member of the Oyo royal family. He urged Nigerians to always consider and at all time emphasis factors that unite the country rather than things that negatively affect the unity of the country, insisting that the country stands more to gain when we are united. He said: “The chieftaincy title signifies that we are one country, one people, understand ourselves and love ourselves. It is a way of cementing our unity because by virtue of this title, I am a member of this family and a member of Yoruba nation now. “We should emphasise what bring us together rather than what divide us as a nation. We are a great country. All we need is to harness our resources and make use of them. Let us de-emphasise what divide us but emphasise what unite us. We need to manifest the legacies of our heros past who laboured to bring us together. It is the responsibility of this current generation to work hard to cement our unity for the benefit of mankind.”