 Executive Director of Engage Empower Educate Initiative (EEEI), Amb. Belema Meshack-Hart, has charged African women that if they put all their resources to use they are capable of taking the continent to its Eldorado (fabulous riches). The ambassador made this remark while addressing over 300 delegates at the 3rd edition of the African Women Summit in Kigali in Rwanda hosted by EEEI. Meshack-Hart, who is also Founder Coalition of Women in Africa for Peace and Development (COWAP), said, “Women can change the status of their life and the African continent. “They are blessed with so much and if they put to use all resources at their disposal women will take Africa to our Eldorado.” Meanwhile, the global leaders and delegates were from Nigeria, Ghana, Ethiopia, Kenya, Benin Republic, Cameroon, Zimbabwe, Tanzania, South Africa, Gambia, Liberia, Sierra Leone, Ethiopia, Canada, Namibia, and Rwanda. The event brought together dignitaries such as the First Lady of Nigeria, Aisha Buhari, represented by Amb. Aishatu Musa the Nigerian Ambassador to Rwanda, and the Chairperson of the Board of Directors of the National Revenue Authority Sierra Leone. Others are: Dr. Mrs. Tuma Adama Gento-Kamara, The First Lady of Benue state; H.E Dr. Eunice Ortom Samuel, First lady of Bauchi State; H.E Hajiya Dr. Aisha Bala Mohammed, The Manager of Affirmative Finance Action for Women in Africa (AFAWA) at African Development Bank; Marieme Esther Dassanou, and Former African Union Youth Envoy; Aya Chebbi. With 30 global and experienced speakers across various sectors in Africa, they discussed the theme, “Examining the Critical Role Women Play as Agent of Peace and Sustainable Development” in their various keynote addresses, panel sessions, impact sessions, fireside chats, paper presentations, and goodwill messages. In her goodwill message, the First Lady of Nigeria, Aisha Buhari, represented by the Nigeria Ambassador to Rwanda, highlighted the economic participation ranking of Rwanda as the 7th country globally and 2nd country in Africa bridging the gender gap. For Gento-Kamara, she hinted on the progress Sierra Leone has made in relation to gender bills. She emphasised that soon the bill for the minimum of 30 per cent women representation in parliament would be implemented. Gento-Kamara also expressed hope that the organisers of the African women summit would be able to draw a very serious agenda based on emerging changes women face in society. The first lady of Benue state further said that with the strength and support of positive men like the founder of COWAP, Africans can achieve what over 200 years will seem impossible to achieve. These global leaders discussed critical and pressing issues around peace and development. The two-day summit wrapped up with an award and dinner night. Women, who were actively involved in development work in their home countries across ending hunger, ending poverty, promoting girl child education, and peace and justice, were recognised and awarded.