 Onuminya Innocent in Sokoto Member of the House of Representatives representing Illela/Gwadabawa federal constituency, Dr. Balarabe Salame, has sponsored the training of no fewer than 557 youths on various skills acquisition programme in Sokoto. The exercise, in collaboration with Free Light of Nigeria Youth Foundation (FLONY), a non-governmental organisation (NGO), has trained the people on baking of cake, soap making and other skills. At the end of the one week training on Yesterday, the lawmaker expressed happiness over the exercise, saying the gesture has impacted on a lot of the youths. “I am very delighted with the commitment of the youths to learn new skills toward improving their living standard. “This gesture is part of the President Muhammadu Buhari’s agenda toward reducing the number of unemployed youths and eradicates poverty in our society. “We really appreciate FLONY’s dedication and generosity in making it possible for our teeming youths across the country to gain new skills for our country’s best future,” he said. Salame added that the beneficiaries of the training will be supported each with N20,000 under the President Buhari’s Poverty Alleviation Programme. He urged the beneficiaries to judiciously utilise the opportunity toward supporting their family and the society at large. In her remarks, the FLONY National President, Hajiya Farida Jauro, thanked the lawmaker for making it possible for the NGO to succeed in the assignment. “He has generously offered a lot of support and guidance to us, as such, we should all appreciate him for his sustain fatherly role in ensuring a better future for the youths. “For our members across the country, I urged you all to always use the opportunity to support your families and other people in your communities. “Doing so will be a great success and achievement for all of us toward addressing our collective mandate at FLONY which has its motor as: ‘HELP ON OUR ARMS’,” she said. THISDAY gathered that the beneficiaries, who are mostly women, were trained on computer digital/marketing, make-up, cake making, cosmetics and detergent making, among others.