 … Inspires people to pave their path and challenge the status quo, not just for themselves but for the benefit of those around them Ugo Aliogo Martell, the oldest of the great Cognac houses, is proud to debut the next chapter of its “Be The Standout Swift” campaign with Afrobeats icon and humanitarian, Davido. A statement by the company said the latest visual installment of Martell’s ‘Be The Standout Swift’ campaign, titled “Standout Swift Story,” is designed to showcase the audacity of the Afrobeats superstar and shed light on what it means to challenge conventions and pave the path for those that follow. The statement said as a brand committed to driving positive change, Martell celebrates those who boldly take on challenges to benefit many, instead of conforming to codes that favor a few. It also noted that drawing inspiration from this ethos and Davido’s legacy, Martell is looking to encourage people to stand out from the crowd and redefine conventions. Davido stated: “As a singer and songwriter, my mission is to show the new generation that the possibilities are endless, and my partnership with Martell is another opportunity to pay tribute to the legacy I have created with my music and community,” said Davido. “My hope is that the ‘Standout Swift Story’ inspires people to pave their path and challenge the status quo, not just for their benefit but for the benefit of those around them.” The statement revealed that for Martell, a Standout Swift is someone who seeks to open up doors for and within the communities around them, “paying homage to this expression and Davido’s mantra – ‘We Rise By Lifting Others’, the film also features members of Davido’s crew who has reached international prominence due to the superstar’s impact.” Managing Director of Pernod Ricard Nigeria, Sola Oke, said: “We have a deep understanding of the challenges being faced by the new generation hence, we remain passionate about driving positive change amongst them and the ‘Standout Swift’ campaign further mirrors our commitment to fulfilling this.” The statement added: “Martell’s legacy is shaped by audacity. The ‘Standout Swift Story’ celebrates the shared legacy between Davido and Jean Martell, who founded the great cognac house in 1715.”