  Adedayo  Akinwale in Abuja A presidential aspirant contesting on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Tein Jack-Rich, has assured that he would not take a single loan throughout his presidency. He also promised to provide 26,000 jobs in each of the 774 local governments, saying within one year of his administration, poverty will be a thing of the past. The presidential aspirant made this known while formally declaring his interest for the presidency in 2023.  Jack-Rich expressed optimism that he would win the presidential primaries of the ruling party slated for May 30. He said this was not the time to compromise the best for a glass of wine, but this was the time to do what was best for the country The presidential hopeful said Nigeria is a great country with an enormous amount of youth-based talent, saying the only talent that could be developed was through a knowledge based economy. Jack-Rich said: “For example, we can create what we call the digital City. In the South-west we have discovered that we can create what we call the Health Tech Centre to look at Medical Care and in the South-east. “We have also discovered that we can establish what we call the technology there.  In that way, we will be able to ensure that our young boys and girls who go to university can also have certain skills to provide the needed knowledge base, value to grow the local economy. “And then also help our GDP. We’ve also looked at the North-East and North-West from North Central, but beyond that, we feel that it’s important as part of our strategy to open up the economy.” He described the oil and gas sectors  as a major catalyst that the country  needs to use to activate the country’s industrial development. According to him, “I’m promising you that by 2023. We have a master plan to move oil production to three million barrels. And not only that, we also have the master plan in such a manner that we can look at the low-hanging fruits where we’re losing our oil and gas resource values and then provide technology based infrastructure. “So, operators will be advised to contribute their fair share. In that way, we will be able to earn the best in oil and gas production and be able to refine what we consume.” Jack-Rich pointed out that he would consolidate on the achievements of President Muhammadu Buhari by stepping outside the box to design the right economic footprint that would stand the test of time so that the economy would move away from the multi-billion dollar economy to a trillion dollar economy. He added: “As we speak right now, Nigeria is the largest economy on the continent of Africa. We are not part of G20. “We need a president that can engage the G7 Economies. You need a president that can stand with these advanced economies and negotiate your place in the community of nations. You need a president that when you travel outside this country and you flip your international passport ID card, you will be respected and honored. “You need a president that can speak to Elon Musk to come to Nigeria and invest. You need a president that can speak to Bill Gates, not to give us aides, but give us technology-based centers, so we can grow.” Jack-Rich said his story is a success story that this country needs to change the political and economic landscape so that Nigeria can have a voice in the community of Nations. “When I look into your eyes, all I see is hope, all I see is the future. Some said to me the other day, Mr. Jack-Rich, you’ve never been a governor before; you have never been a senator before, you don’t have the political pedigree. How would you do the job? And then I said to them, I produce. What are those guys you’re talking about spending from Zoom?” He explained that what is needed is the right, coherent, consistent physical policy with the right legislation to back it up so that the nation can begin to make policies to establish economic footprints. Promising not to take a single loan throughout his presidency, the presidential aspirant said if elected he would not make policies that would not be backed up with legislation that would guarantee investors capital. “If my brothers in Zamfara are having many social issues, I’m gonna fly in there. If my brothers and Kano are having social issues, I’m going to fly in there. If my brothers in Kaduna are having issues. I’m gonna fly in there.  I’m not going to send anybody. I’m gonna go there,” he added. Jack-Rich assured that he would use ‘sporadic economic  bombardment’ to create opportunities for the youths, stressing that there is no amount of military firepower that could eradicate the social unrest. He continued, “We will create 26,000 jobs in every local government area in my first year in office. We will train 26,000 boys and girls. “The reason we are struggling. The reason was struggling with inflation, which will persist. It’s because we’re not consuming what we’re producing. And we are not producing what we are consuming. We are a commodity export-based economy. And when there is a global Shockwave that eats that commodity, we’re all in comatose. “And that is the reason why we need a game changer. And the only way you can have a game-changer is for us to believe that a strategic visionary leadership whose heart is for his people, is the answer.” He assured that the perennial strike by the  Academic Staff Union of University (ASUU) strike would be a thing of the past if elected.