 James Sowole in Abeokuta The Church of Nigeria (Anglican Communion) at the weekend, said only a new citizen-made constitution can address fundamental issues in the Nigerian polity and not amendment of the one formulated by the military. The Bishop of the Diocese of Ijebu South-West of the Anglican Communion, Reverend Babatunde Ogunbanwo, made the assertion in one of the items in the Bishop Charge released during the third session of the Fourth Synod of the Diocese. The synod hosted by St Barnabas Anglican Church, Okun-Owa, attracted senior clergies, including bishops from within and outside the diocese and distinguished personalities, with the theme: ‘Lift Up Your Eyes’. Reading the charge, Ogunbanwo recalled that several constitutions have evolved at several periods in the country from colonial times to the time of political independence in order to guide the country at critical times and deal with critical issues. He said like it had happened in several periods in Nigeria’s political history, Nigeria is due to have a brand new constitution to address several complaints of the people. The cleric said: “While we commend the National Assembly for its efforts in reviewing the resent constitution, we are convinced that what we need is a totally new civilian constitution made by the sovereign representation of the ethnic nationalities of this country. “The new constitution will address fundamental issues necessary for growing a united and prosperous country. “We need a new citizen-made national constitution and not the amendment of a military-formulated constitution. “The issue of justice, equity and equality of citizens in a free and democratic society remains an issue that must be openly and frankly discussed, legislated and implemented for the survival of the country. “We need the birth of a new Nigeria where no citizen is oppressed, rather where everyone has the right to strive for good life. “We need a nation where our collective resources are judiciously and equitably distributed for the good of all. Our present system breeds greed, corruption, anarchy and injustice. We need a new Nigeria for all.” While speaking on the 2023 general election, Adebanwo said though some people have hijacked the political process for their personal agenda, politics is not a dirty game as it was being perceived in the past. Specifically calling on Christians to participate in the political process, the bishop said they should register in political party of their choice and be involved in political activities from the ward level to national level because those who contest elections are chosen from the grassroots and ward levels.