 •Ex-Imo governor slams N1bn suit against FG over alleged unlawful arrest Alex Enumah in Abuja and Wale Igbintade Justice Inyang Ekwo of a Federal High Court, Abuja, yesterday adjourned to today, to entertain the bail application of former Imo State Governor, Rochas Okorocha. However, the Senator representing Imo West District has instituted a legal action against the federal government over his alleged unlawful arrest and continued detention in the custody of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). The judge fixed the date after the Senator representing Imo senatorial district was arraigned before him on corruption charges. The EFCC had arraigned Okorocha on a 17-count charges bordering on alleged diversion of the sum of N2.9 billion belonging to the state government. According to the charge, Okorocha had diverted the funds from the Imo State Government House Accounts and that of the Imo State Local Government Joint accounts to private companies. The alleged fraud was said to have been perpetrated by Okorocha and one Anyim Inyerere with the use of their private companies between 2014 and 2016, when he held sway as the Executive Governor of Imo State. He, however, denied all the charges preferred against him by the EFCC. Following his not guilty plea, EFCC counsel, Gbolahan Latona asked the Judge for an adjournment to enable him assemble his witnesses that would testify in the case. According Latona, the Commission have listed 15 witnesses to testify against the APC presidential aspirant. He added that most of the witnesses were outside the court jurisdiction because of the peculiar nature of the charge. Responding, Okorocha’s counsel, Okey Amaechi told the court that he had filed application for Okorocha’s bail and had also served same on EFCC. He attempted to argue the application but was opposed by the anti-graft agency which claimed that it intends to file counter affidavit against the bail issued. Although, the EFCC’S lawyer sought adjournment to June 1 for arguments on bail, Justice Ekwo ruled that he would take all the bail applications on May 31, and directed the EFCC to endeavor to file its opposition within time. Justice Inyang Ekwo subsequently ordered Okorocha’s further detention with the EFCC till May 31, when his bail application would be argued. Meanwhile, Okorocha, in a legal action filed by his lawyer, Chief Mike Ozekhome, SAN, is seeking the sum of N1 billion as compensation for the invasion of his Abuja, and subsequent arrest and detention by operatives of the EFCC without any legal justification. The EFCC and the Attorney General of the Federation are listed in the suit filed on May 27 as 1st and 2nd defendants respectively. The presidential aspirant among others is asking the court to declare that the action of the EFCC violates his fundamental rights of movement, association, owning of property amongst others. He is also seeking an order of perpetual injunction restraining the defendants from threatening or harassing, arresting and detaining him in respect of the same or similar matter pending before the court or any other matter for which he knows nothing about. In an affidavit of urgency deposed to in support of the fundamental enforcement right suit, the deponent, Mrs. Uloma Nwosu, claimed that the action of the EFCC was targeted at incarcerating the federal lawmaker and prevent him from participating in the presidential primary election of the APC slated for May 30 and 31. According to the deponent, Okorocha has committed no known offence that would warrant the siege of his residence and subsequent arrest and detention, adding that the EFCC to her knowledge did not invite the former governor for investigation or explanation on any alleged crime. She therefore urged the court to grant the application in the interest of justice.