 Ibrahim Shuaibu in Kano A former Special Assistant to President Muhammadu Buhari on National Assembly Matters, Hon. Kawu Sumaila yesterday said the All Progressives Congress (APC) had derailed from its founding vision, mission and founding principles Sumaila, also a  former Minority Whip in the House of Representatives, added that more political actors would dump the ruling party across the federation due to bad governance and maladministration. In a statement he personally signed yesterday, Buhari’s former assistant announced that he had resigned from the APC. He lamented that the party had reached “a point of no-repair. Hence, nothing its members could do to restore its lost glory before conduct of the 2023 general elections. “After wide consultations with supporters, political associates and deep analysts of the current political situation in our dear state, it is proved that there is no serious commitment to reclaim the APC from the undemocratic elements who contributed nothing to the formation of the party. “Nigerians can still remember the roles I played as member/leader in the House of Representatives from 2003 to 2015 in the fight against impunity, promotion of good governance and provision of democratic space for all, which led to the broad participation of Nigerian citizens in democratic governance. “It is unfortunate that some few individuals for their selfish interest are now bastardising the foundation we laid for our democratic system. We will never fold our arms watching these few individuals destroying our democratic system. We will do our best to safeguard the system for the future generation.” On his recent visit to Malam Ibrahim Shekarau, Kawu clarified that he visited the former governor alongside a former Speaker of Kano State House of Assembly, Hon. Kabiru Rurum after Kano State Governor, Dr. Abdullahi Ganduje and his political associates visited him. Kawu added that he had “a fruitful discussion with him. We have given Shekarau some cogent reasons why he should not listen to Ganduje. “If Ganduje is really serious that he wants Shekarau to remain in the APC, why did he direct A.A Zaura and Bashir Lado to purchase forms for the Kano Central Senatorial seat despite the agreement that Shekarau was given an automatic ticket? “If Kano APC stakeholders consider Malam Shekarau as an important person in the party, why do they always insult him in public? How can they convince Shekarau now to believe that they are with him politically? “These are some of the things we discussed with Sen. Shekarau and it was based on our discussion that he refused to honour the invitation extended to him by the presidency in its efforts to reconcile him with Dr Ganduje. Honestly, Ganduje has nothing to tell Shekarau to convince him to stay with him. Kawu assured that APC would continue to witness mass exodus not only in Kano but nationwide because the party has been hijacked by some bad politicians who knew nothing about the struggle done for its formation. “We have been telling the party’s leaders that something should be done to correct these mistakes but our calls always fall into the deep ears. I believe it is now too late for the party leaders to reclaim the lost glory of the APC at this time when the general election is approaching.”