Due to her positive impacts in the events industry in Nigeria and abroad, many have been wondering who Bukonla Ifedayo Esan popularly known on Instagram as Bukkykoga is, well, the very creative entrepreneur doesn’t go out of her way to court publicity, but prefers that her work speaks for her. Consequently, there has been a shroud of mystery around the lady who reportedly “handled the biggest weddings in town.” In a recent interview, however, Bukkykoga removed the veil as she came out of her shell and provided adequate details that give a fuller picture of her profile. According to the young CEO of BKGlam International and BKGlam Event, “I was born into a polygamous family and raised by my mum. As for my education, I studied Business Administration and Human Resources at Plymouth University, United Kingdom,” she asserted. Divulging further information about herself, Bukkykoga who is one of the biggest event planners in Nigeria and the UK said: “While growing my ambition in life was to become a very successful entrepreneur, though it has not been easy running multiple businesses, I bet being successful comes with hard work and sleepless nights. I have done numerous businesses, I have planned weddings for a little fee or none as part of upcoming planner sacrifices, also having to style some difficult clients wasn’t an easy task! But I’m thankful for today.” Bukkykoga, described as “a fashion stylist and event planner,” further proved her credentials thus: “I am a well-trained event planner and fashion guru. I handle lots of events in Nigeria and the United Kingdom. I have also styled a few well-known Nigerian celebrities like Toyin Abraham, Kemi Afolabi, Queenola and Dr Ololade Abuta among others.” She added: “As we have outlined on our website, www. Bkglam.co.uk, we plan, design and manage exceptional celebrations throughout the world, from small intimate gatherings to large and lavish affairs, our weddings and parties are memorable, magical experiences, perfectly planned and beautifully executed.” Despite that Lagos is a city brimming with thousands of boutiques and dress stores, Bukkykoga, famously known as a wedding planner with the Midas touch, avowed that her BKGlam boutique is different, : “BKGlam is an all-in-one store, and clients don’t have to break the bank to patronise us.” BukkyKoga, who was the planner behind some of society’s biggest weddings of the past five years, said that BKGlam’s handling of clients’ events is topnotch and second to none. “We have different packages, ranging from silver to gold and to platinum, depending on client’s affordability,” she said while further affirming that BKGlam “caters to events and styling all over the world”.