 By Omolabake Fasogbon A consultancy firm, Crosswave Service has sought for compliance to globally acceptable standards at a summit organised for apprentice and operators across the beauty sector. Participants at the summit were also charged on continuous learning to remain relevant in an industry described to be dynamic and fast growing. The summit which was held in partnership with African Youth Focus Initiative (AFRYFI) had experts and veterans from different subsectors of the beauty industry who carefully engaged participants on trends and professional practice in the sector. Managing Director and organisers of the programme, Taiwo Ape explained the rationale behind the programme in connection with the alarming level of unprofessionalism among operators, a situation which he considered to be threatening sector’s prospects. While addressing participants, one of the resource persons and Founder of Elegant Twins School of Cosmetology and Clinic, Dr. (Mrs.) Elizabeth Osinsanya admonished participants to subject themselves to continuous learning to become authority on the field. Osinsanya lamented insufficient stakeholders support for the industry and urged operators not to be discouraged by present situation but work towards professionalism and impact. On her part, CEO of Avi Beauty Smith, Kofoworola Martins stressed the importance of skills acquisition as one of the drivers of the economy. She also urged addressees to commit themselves to continuous learning to a level that commands value and respect. She said, “Both the informal and formal sectors cannot survive exclusively of one another. As a matter of fact, the thinking now is that after a formal education, you are better off having a skill. We have lawyers who are shoemakers and doctors who are now tailor. The beautiful thing about skill is that you can set to work immediately from the corner of your room. “However, while acquiring skills, it is important to learn to the level of excellence so as to be at the cutting edge of your profession and for such skills to command value and reward.” Ape also stressed the need for operators to be tech savvy while educating them on how to harness technology tools to grow their craft and business. The event had in attendance hairdressers, stylist, cosmetologists and beauty entrepreneurs amongst others.