 Segun Awofadeji in Bauchi Bauchi State Governor, Bala Mohammed, has ordered for the immediate establishment of police outpost at Yelwan Tsakani area of Bauchi Local Government Area. He also pledged to procure operational vehicles for the police and other security agencies to intensify operations in the area to guarantee peaceful coexistence. The governor, who addressed the community members separately, enjoined them to be their brother’s keeper irrespective of any difference, even as he enjoined parents and other stakeholders to ensure the proper upbringing of their children and wards for sustainable growth and development. He made the commitment while inspecting the level of damage caused by the civil unrest which resulted in the loss of three lives, destruction of houses and other property in the area recently. According to him, “We must learn to live together as one irrespective of any difference, for peace to reign supreme and to enable the government continue with the good work it is doing.” On the 24-hour curfew imposed on the area, the governor said it would continue for a few days until normalcy returns to the area, saying: “We did not do it to make you suffer; it is for our collective good. We will closely monitor the situation and review it appropriately.” Addressing the community members after the inspection, Mohammed, who described the incident as an act of miscreants, warned that the government would not allow bad elements in the state to disrupt the harmonious and peaceful coexistence being enjoyed across the state. He directed the Bauchi State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA) to take inventory of the property destroyed to enable the government to provide them with relief materials. While at Lukshi, which was the centre of the clash, the state Commissioner of Police, Umar Sanda, told the governor that the civil unrest occurred as a result of rivalry between the warring youths because of a lady. He further stated that two lives were lost, while several houses were burnt with property worth millions of naira destroyed. The Police Commissioner, however, warned that the people should avoid taking the law into their hands, and that the law would take its full course on anyone found wanting in the cause of the clash. He said the police have embarked on a full scale investigation into the immediate cause of the incident with a view to bringing the perpetrators to book. Sanda also enjoined the community and religious leaders to guide their subjects by preaching the gospel of peace and tolerance for the overall development of the state. Stakeholders from the areas, during the visit, commended Governor Mohammed for his support and concern, pledging to work towards achieving lasting peace and stability in the state. The state government has earlier imposed 24-hour curfew in the area to avoid further escalation of the incident.