 Umar Mohammed Nasko has, over the years, proven that he is indeed fearless. Even when some of his age mates complain that they are not given a chance to make their voices heard in the nation’s political space, he still dazzles. However, his recent action has proven otherwise as many have begun to rethink his political relevance. Many would recall that when Nasko resigned as Chief of Staff to the Governor of Niger State and eventually emerged as the candidate of the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP), by defeating the then incumbent deputy governor of the state, Alhaji Ahmed Musa Ibeto, and others in the primaries,  many political analysts concluded that he was surely going to be the next governor of the state. That was based on his popularity and the fact that he was the anointed candidate of the then incumbent governor of the state, Aliyu Babangida. Due to his closeness to the former governor,  many, including his friends and admirers, had seen him as the successor to Babangida. In other words, many had thought that Nasko, who was the PDP governorship candidate in the state, would coast home to victory. But this was not to be, as he lost to the opposition APC candidate, Abubakar Sani Bello. Shortly after the election, the former Commissioner of Tourism and Culture’s fame began to wane and his political structure almost crumbled. Again, he threw his cap into the ring for the 2019 governorship elections in the state.   In no time, he regained his lost popularity and defeated other heavyweights in the PDP, including Ibeto who was a former Nigerian Ambassador to South Africa. With this, he had hoped that his dream would come true. But alas! It turned out to be another wild goose chase, and he was left in the cold again! However, a source disclosed that the handsome politician remains unperturbed, despite the loss. As preparations for the 2023 elections kick off in earnest, Nasko has made wide consultation and even expressed his ambition to represent the Niger North Senatorial District. But just as many of his fans are happy and ready to vote for him, Nasko chickened out of the race. A source revealed to Society Watch that he did that for ‘personal reasons’. “Nasko ‘chickened’ out of the race 24 hours after the governor of the state, Abubakar Sani Bello, indicated interest to contest for the same Niger North Senatorial District on the platform of All Progressives Congress.” Those in the know confirmed that Nasko hurriedly pulled out of the race to avoid defeat, having suffered the same fate from Bello twice during the race for the number one job in the state. As a result, tongues are now wagging over his action, just as his fans have reportedly been let down.