 No doubt, the billionaire businessman and Managing Director of Costain West Africa, Ayodeji Karim, has made a name for himself in Nigeria and even beyond. His antecedents over the years precede him anywhere he goes and he is considered one of the most visionary corporate leaders in the country. He glided from business to politics. But the Ibadan, Oyo State-born businessman would never forget in a hurry how he was given a baptism of fire in 2019 during the Oyo State governorship election when he made known his intention to contest for the number one job of the state on the platform of the ruling party in his state, the All Progressives Congress (APC). In spite of this, the astute corporate giant immediately picked up the pieces of his life and went back to his original boardroom job, which had suffered a big setback during his political foray. Today, the younger brother to another successful businessman and the Agbaoye of Ibadanland, Kolade Karim, is on another mission: to represent the Oyo South Senatorial district. The intelligent and charismatic man believes that the time has come to herald policies and initiatives with direct impacts on the welfare of the people. He believes that there is so much that could be achieved in the Senate through proper legislation, adequate leadership and representation. Karim hopes to bring governance closer to the grassroots if given the opportunity to represent the senatorial district at the Red Chamber. According to his supporters, he has a history of running successful companies, and this is one of his plans for the senatorial district. Karim worked as a manager with Le Pain Croissant Limited, South-all, UK, before joining Charles Walden & Associates Company Ltd, the UK as the Project Team lead. He served as Chief Executive Officer, Fortis Construction Company Limited, and was employed by Costain West Africa Plc, in February 2007, as Operations Director. He rose to become the Managing Director/ Chief Executive Officer of the construction giant in January 2010. He is currently the CEO of Winchester Farms, Winchester Homes & Construction. Also, he is into hospitality in Ibadan, as he owns Pythagoras Lounge in Ibadan.