 The only listed property development company in Nigeria, UPDC Plc last week broke ground on Pinnock Prime Estate in Lekki by performing the Sod Turning ceremony of the estate. The event flagged off the commencement of construction work at the Company’s latest site and service scheme which is located beside the beautiful Pinnock Beach Estate. While welcoming guests at the well-attended event, the Development Director of the company, Bidemi Fadayomi described Pinnock Prime Estate as the creation of a high end residential estate in the heart of Ajiran. Fadayomi said, “As developers, we have a track record of developing exceptional residential schemes throughout Nigeria, from Metro City in Abuja to Pinnock Beach Estate right next door to us here and we are proud to introduce to the market, the latest addition to our legacy, the Pinnock Prime Estate. “Our vision is to establish a new bench mark for luxury lifestyle estate which provides a secure environment, a haven for home makers whilst also generating the highest economic return to investors. We will deliver over a hectare of land for future development, supported by infrastructure services such as power as well as recreational services such as a park and play areas.’’ In his own speech, the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, Mr. Odunayo Ojo said the estate represented a premium lifestyle and world-class luxury residential development, envisioned to become a highly sought-after estate of choice within the area, creating a new benchmark for sub-urban living. He said, “It is designed for subscribers who want to settle down and plant roots for their families as well as investors looking to take advantage of prime land in the heart of Lagos State and get the best returns on their investment. “The development is an exclusive 18 plot scheme located on a 1.47-hectare space. This consists of 13 plots (9 Low-Density Plots and 5 High-Density Plots) and will incorporate a range of facilities required to create a luxury lifestyle for the residents. These include a secure gate access with security features, visitors’ parking, tree-lined road network with jogging/cycling pathways, water and sewage treatment plants, power supply with underground cabling, and a fully staffed facilities management office. Other facilities include a park and picnic area for the estate residents and a children’s play area.’’ Pinnock Prime Estate will be maintained by UPDC FM, a world-class facility management company that offers users end-to-end maintenance services designed to ensure the estate is well maintained, safe, and appreciates in value over time, and Development Control within the estate will be managed by the UPDC Development Control team whose role is to review and approve all development plans in line with the approved development guidelines for the estate and monitor construction to ensure that properties are constructed in line with the approvals. Formwork Ltd. has been appointed the Main Contractor for the estate development with Messrs Mar and Mor are the MEP Contractors. The developer, UPDC is a seasoned development and investment company in Nigeria with an established record in developing, selling, and managing real estate assets across Nigeria. Known for the quality of our products, UPDC offers the most diversified portfolio of residential, commercial, retail, and hospitality assets. The project is expected to be completed and delivered by the last quarter of 2022.