 Chuks Okocha in Abuja The All Progressives Congress (APC) yesterday said there are plans to reconcile aggrieved aspirants after the presidential, governorship, senatorial and House of Representatives’ primaries scheduled to take place from May 26 to 30. National Chairman of the party, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, who stated this at a virtual town hall meeting, added that no grieving aspirant will leave the party after the party’s primaries. Adamu, who was represented by his Special Assistant, Prof. Abdullahi Yau, disclosed this at the event organised under the aegis of the party Ward-to-ward Diaspora Network in collaboration with the APC Ward-to-ward Ambassadors on “Intra-Party democracy for the Emergence of Best Candidates.” He said, “Directly, I want to tell you that after the primaries, none of the contestants of aspirants will leave the party. You can see unlike the other parties extending weight, in our party all our aspirants are calm. Everybody is going left and right, trying to win votes for themselves.” According to him, all aspirants would be listened to by a high-power delegation of the committee if there’s a tangible reason why they are complaining after the party’s primaries. “They will listen to you and provide for your needs. In this way, we can carry along everybody to the party,” he said. “I can assure you this is the most interesting part; the number of people that are contesting and they are going to give everybody a playing level ground where you can exercise your right as a Nigerian to contest.“And at the end of the exercise, just as what happened in the National convention, you see that everybody will be satisfied with whoever that emerges from the primaries.” Speaking further, Adamu reassured, “Unless you have a process that is not well coordinated, a process that is marred by irregularities that’s when people will be aggrieved and would want to leave the party. If you’re allowed to exercise your right and you think there’s fairness in what’s going on in the party and you lose, I don’t think you would want to leave the party. “I assure you even if we are going to have such a scenario, where we are going to have aggrieved members after the primaries, the Chairman and stakeholders of the party will ensure they reconcile everybody after the primaries.”The list of APC presidential aspirants who met the deadline for submission of their nomination forms are Vice President Yemi Osinbajo; National Leader of the party, Senator Bola Tinubu; former Minister of Transportation, Mr. Rotimi Amaechi; former Minister of Niger Delta Development, Senator Godswill Akpabio; former Minister of Science, Technology and Innovation, Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu; former Imo State governor, Senator Rochas Okorocha and former Ogun state governor, Senator Ibikunle Amosu. Others are Pastor Tunde Bakare, Cross River State governor, Prof. Ben Ayade; his Ebonyi State counterpart, Governor Dave Umahi; Ekiti State governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi; former Minister of State for Education, Mr. Emeka Nwajiuba; former Senate President, Senator Ken Nnamani; Kogi State governor, Yahaya Bello; Jigawa Governor, Mohammed Badaru Abubakar, and former Zamfara State governor, Senator Ahmed Yerima. Others on the list are Senator Ajayi Borroffice, the only female aspirant, Mrs Uju Kennedy Ohnenye; Pastor Nicholas Felix Nwagbo, former Speaker of Representatives, Dimeji Bankole; Senate President, Dr. Ahmad Lawan, former Minister of Information, Chief Ikeobasi Mokelu, and oil mogul, Mr. Tein Jack Rich.