 One of the advantages of 1xBet is the abundance of promotions. This betting company always has additional options to thrill and excite fans. And now the reliable bookmaker launches a new promotion called 1xSafari. In it, any betting fan will be able to hunt for posh prizes. The offer is focused on players from African countries. Players from Benin, Cameroon, Congo, Ghana, Guinea, DR Congo, Kenya, Nigeria, Senegal, Uganda, and Zambia can participate. 1xBet traditionally pays special attention to this region, in which it is a partner of CAF tournaments, as well as the famous soccer club Lyon in Africa. What you need to take part in the promotion: 1. Register or authorize on the 1xBet site or in the app. 2. Click on the “Participate” button on the promotion page. 3. Place bets, starting from 2 USD, on any sports events. For every wager made from April 18th to June 9th, 2022 campaign participants will receive promo tickets, which will allow them to participate in the prize drawings on the campaign page. The bigger a player’s bet, the more tickets they will receive. If the bet exceeds the amount of: 2 USD – 1 ticket; 5 USD – 3 tickets; 10 USD – 10 tickets; 20 USD – 25 tickets; 45 USD – 60 tickets; Over 65 USD – 100 tickets. The promotion consists of 2 phases, each with different prizes. The prizes of the first stage will be drawn from the tickets received for the bets made before May 12th. The main prizes in this stage of the campaign are Apple iPhone 13 Pro Max (1 winner in each country) and Apple iPhone 13 Pro (2 winners in each country). In the second stage, among all promotion tickets received from May 13th to June 9th, the winner will be chosen at random to get the main prize of the campaign – a Honda CR-V car. In addition, thousands of bonus points will be drawn in both stages, which can be used for betting on New 1xBet promo with Honda car as main prize One of the advantages of 1xBet is the abundance of promotions. This betting company always has additional options to thrill and excite fans. And now the reliable bookmaker launches a new promotion called 1xSafari. In it, any betting fan will be able to hunt for posh prizes. The offer is focused on players from African countries. Players from Benin, Cameroon, Congo, Ghana, Guinea, DR Congo, Kenya, Nigeria, Senegal, Uganda, and Zambia can participate. 1xBet traditionally pays special attention to this region, in which it is a partner of CAF tournaments, as well as the famous soccer club Lyon in Africa. What you need to take part in the promotion: 1. Register or authorize on the 1xBet site or in the app. 2. Click on the “Participate” button on the promotion page. 3. Place bets, starting from 2 USD, on any sports events. For every wager made from April 18th to June 9th, 2022 campaign participants will receive promo tickets, which will allow them to participate in the prize drawings on the campaign page. The bigger a player’s bet, the more tickets they will receive. If the bet exceeds the amount of: 2 USD – 1 ticket; 5 USD – 3 tickets; 10 USD – 10 tickets; 20 USD – 25 tickets; 45 USD – 60 tickets; Over 65 USD – 100 tickets. The promotion consists of 2 phases, each with different prizes. The prizes of the first stage will be drawn from the tickets received for the bets made before May 12th. The main prizes in this stage of the campaign are Apple iPhone 13 Pro Max (1 winner in each country) and Apple iPhone 13 Pro (2 winners in each country). In the second stage, among all promotion tickets received from May 13th to June 9th, the winner will be chosen at random to get the main prize of the campaign – a Honda CR-V car. In addition, thousands of bonus points will be drawn in both stages, which can be used for betting on 1xBet. . This exciting promotion is a good opportunity to get great prizes for betting on sports. Use this chance, go on the hunt for prizes – and get maximum thrills with 1xBet!