 James Sowole in Abeokuta Ogun State Governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun yesterday urged the people of the state not to see the reopening of the nation’s borders as an avenue to engage in illicit activities capable of damaging the economy of the country. Abiodun gave this charge at the 10th coronation anniversary of the Olu of Ilaro and Paramount Ruler of Yewaland, Oba Kehinde Olugbenle, yesterday. At the anniversary are former Ogun State Governor, Chief Olusegun Osoba; Akarigbo of Remoland, Oba Babatunde Ajayi; Alake of Egbaland, Oba Adedotun Aremu Gbadebo; Agura of Gbagura, Oba Sabir Bakre and Chairman, Senate Committee on Finance, Senator Solomon Adeola, among others. Speaking at the anniversary, the governor explained that people should only see the reopening of the borders as a mark of the federal government’s commitment to the development of the country. He said: “We are very happy that the federal government has reopened some land borders, among these borders are the Idi-Iroko borders, here in Ogun.” The governor enjoined the people of the state “to please cooperate with law enforcement agencies, we should not engage in illicit activities, such illegal activities do a lot of damage to our economy.” He appealed to security agencies to ensure that they continue to see the people as partners in progress and ensure that they avoid the loss of lives and property that usually come with clashes between security agencies and the people. Abiodun, also, charged the people of the state and the country as a whole to understand that they have great responsibility as a people to the overall development of the nation, urged eligible voters to get their Permanent Voter’s Card as well as participate fully in the forthcoming elections. “We are gradually getting into the next season of political activities, as we prepare for the 2023 General Elections, all eligible voters should get their permanent voter’s cards as voting during elections is our civic duty. “It is the least you can do, people get the government they say that they deserve, if you do not vote, it means you do not have a say in those that govern you and more importantly those that represent you.” He further urged the people to use their power rightly by voting in credible leaders, saying voters shouldn’t allow themselves to be deceived or used by unscrupulous politicians. Abiodun acknowledged the calmness, disposition and sincerity of the Olu of Ilaro and said that the monarch is a true representation of royalty that has continued to contribute towards the success of his administration. He, however, congratulated the sons and daughters of the town who were conferred with different chieftaincy titles by the monarch, charged them to continue to support the development of Yewaland and the state as a whole