By Hammed Shittu Former Minister of Youths and Sports during former President Goodluck Jonathan administration, Mallam Bolaji Abdullahi, has said he possesses creditentials and  experience to defeat candidate of the ruling All Progressives Congress(APC) in the 2023 general election. Abdullahi, who was  also THISDAY editor and former national spokesman of All Progressives Congress (APC) stated this in Ilorin while speaking with journalists shortly after his emergence as the consensus senatorial candidate for Kwara Central senatorial district for next year general election.The elated Abdullahi also said that Kwara  PDP had learnt its lesson in 2019 election and was therefore set to retrieve power from the ruling APC in the state in 2023. According to him,  “what happened in 2019 in Kwara state was an aberration, it happened because we compromised certain things we used to do to stay in power.“We have learnt our lesson and we are coming back in 2023. I can tell you for sure that the  people of Kwara have realised that they have ended up with a government they don’t need, and that has greatly provided a leverage for our return to power in 2023 election.”Speaking on his capacity for the job, Abdullahi said as a journalist, his primary assignment is asking questions, and he has learnt a lot on the job.He also said, “I worked very hard and performed  excellently during my tenure as Special Assistant, Special Adviser to the Governor, Commissioner, Federal Minister and a complete party man as the National Spokesman  of the party. Nobody among candidates of other political parties can beat my experience and the people of Kwara know that.  So, I’m the best man for the job.“This time around, I’m going to work harder and make the unprecedented difference we  never had before in Kwara Central because what we are having currently is zero, compare to what I’m bringing to the table”.He added, “I will be actively involved in making laws that will make Nigeria a better place for everyone to live. Our youths would be actively engaged and we will create opportunities for everyone to live a better life.”Abdullahi also criticised the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari for its gross incompetence that had brought the country low in all fronts since her creation. He said, “It’s gross incompetence that has caused President Muhammadu Buhari to make the country what it is today, it’s not about any political will, you can only give what you have. “We need to completely rebuild this country, and everyone knows by now that the APC has completely failed Nigerians and the PDP is ready to take up that challenge. “It’s very clear that we cannot hand over the current Nigeria to our children because those children that the ruling party, the elites refused to properly take care now, in terms of quality education and gainful employment, are the ones that would not give their own children peace of mind, and be controlling them tomorrow with guns if we don’t do the needful now”.