 Fidelis David in Akure The All Progressives Congress (APC) primary elections for the House of Representatives in Ondo State was yesterday characterised by violence. The primary election for Ifedore/Idanre Federal  Constituency was suspended over fracas among aspirants. The primary election which was held at the Premier Hotel in Igbara-Oke, Ifedore Local Government Area of the state, started about 5:00p.m. and was disrupted when 83 delegates out of 100 delegates had voted. The aspirants are: Hon. Tajudeen Adefisoye, currently representing the federal constituency, Mr. Bamidele Oloyelogun, the Speaker of the state House of Assembly and Mr. Moshood Bakare. The Speaker of the state House of Assembly, Mr. Bamidele Oleyelogun who is an aspirant had accused Hon. Adefisoye’s agent of beating his agent, saying that the primary should not continue. Speaking to journalists, Mr. Taiwo Akeju, the electoral officer for the primary, said that “out of 100 delegates, 83 had voted and there was a lacuna which we have to solve. “And all the aspirants cooperated with us. We have counted it and the interim result is with us. We will write our result and the national leadership will take it up there. “From the interim result, Hon. Bamidele Oloyelogun got 3 votes, Bakare 6, Adefisoye 70 votes while four votes were voided,” he said. For Akure North/South, gunshots were fired at the venue of the primary election of the party held at Ade Super Hotel in Akure, the state capital. Mr. Aderin Adesida emerged winner of Akure North/South for the All Progressives Congress flag bearer, having won the party’s primary. Prince Adesida polled 68 votes to defeat the current serving lawmaker, Mayokun Alade who had 37 votes while Oluwafemi Fadairo also scored five votes. Crisis however erupted when the Chairman, House of Representatives Primary Electoral Committee, Mr. Adeyemi Akola was about to announce the results as some hoodlums dashed into the venue demanding cancellation of the primary election. Security operatives however overpowered the hoodlums, while delegates, journalists and INEC officials had to scamper for safety after canisters of tear gas were fired.