 Blessing Ibunge in Port Harcourt Dumo Lulu-Briggs, a gubernatorial aspirant of the Accord Party, says he is determined to rebuild Rivers if elected as governor though some people in the state may not like his face. Lulu-Briggs told his supporters that part of his gubernatorial ambition would be establishing a brain factory in the state. “What we want to do is to build the factory of brains in the minds of all of us and see how we can bring it to reality,” explained the AP governorship aspirant. “The WE Agenda is about the people. Whether we like it or not, persons would be elected (in 2023). That is why we must understand that this is about you. What are those dreams that you hold so very high? How do you want Rivers State to be? We all have sacrifices to make.” The Accord Party chieftain made the promise yesterday at an event organised by WE Agenda, a group championing Lulu-Briggs’ governorship ambition, in Port Harcourt. Though commending successive administrations in Rivers for their performances, Lulu-Briggs said from 1999, the state’s economy, compared to Lagos, was disastrous. “We have to, first of all, grow the economy so that it can accommodate all of us. I will be that person you will vote for. I know some people may not like my face. You have to ask yourself whether I have the capacity to grow the economy. It does not matter the political party you belong to. We shall do the best for everyone,” he explained. Speaking further, he stressed, “So, I am now here because I know what it takes. Rivers State has been a mono-economy, and we have to change it. There is a lot to be done. We must know that it is a collective responsibility. So, we, in the WE Agenda, are concerned about the people.” He also emphasised rebuilding public institutions in Rivers to give opportunities to the poor. “We are tired and want a new reality of life. I want to build the economy you want. Rivers State is blessed, and it is time to awake to that reality. It won’t be easy, but it can be done. We want to form an all-inclusive government,” Lulu-Briggs pointed out. “The government that I will head will accommodate everyone. It doesn’t matter the political party you belong to. When we form the government, we will create opportunities for the citizens.” Lulu-Briggs reiterated that, if elected governor in 2023, he would focus more on education and develop the future of Rivers youths through information and communication technology (ICT).