 Mary Nnah Presidential aspirant for the 2023 elections on the platform of African Democratic Congress (ADC), Kingsley Chiedu Moghalu, has lamented that the ruling All Progressives Party (APC) and opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) had over the years ruined Nigeria, saying the country has been rendered ungovernable and challenging to live in. Speaking during the ADC Lagos congress held at the party’s Logos Centre, Oregun, Ikeja, where the party’s new executives were elected, Moghalu said, “At one time, Nigerians were known to be the happiest people on earth but today, I don’t think we are as happy as we used to be. But we can recover our happiness if we look at ruling parties and say we will not be like them and that ADC will be different.” Speaking further he said, “ADC will run its party affairs with true democracy – our primaries will not be determined by stomach infrastructure. We will look for the right candidates for the House of Assemblies, Senate, House of Representatives and President.” Moghalu, who was quick to solicit support in his bid for the presidency, noted, “I seek for your support to become the presidential candidate of the ADC in the 2023 elections and with me as your candidate by the grace of God, we would win. “We have to decide that we want to win and the 2023 election is a very good opportunity for us as a party because Nigeria has never been the way it is today. People are fundamentally unhappy in this country and we in ADC are all ready for something different, new, and bold.” He noted further that ADC is ready for the real change, adding, “And so if we are ready, we have to ask ourselves, when it comes to the presidency, which is what I am aspiring for, what does it take to win a presidential election. ADC must position itself to win. That means you must have a candidate who has name recognition so that when you ring him out into the public square, people will easily recognise him.” Moghalu, who recalled his role as the former Deputy Governor of the Central Bank, revealed further that he was the one who introduced the Bank Verification Number (BVN) that has become so useful today. He recalled further that having spent 17 years as a United Nations diplomat, he helped to rebuild countries that were broken and having the kind of problems that we are facing in Nigeria today, adding that if he could solve those problems for other countries, he can solve Nigeria’s problems as well. Noting further that Lagos is a very important state in the nation politically and commercially, he said, “Lagos is the commercial capital of Nigeria … so ADC has a historic assignment in the 2023 election and that is to capture Lagos State by producing the next governor of Lagos State.” The ADC Lagos State Chairman-elect, George Ashiru, said the party has had its challenges over the years, noting that everyone is anxious to save Nigeria through ADC. However, he said that the party has been able to bring everybody together to have a celebratory event. He noted that the event itself was a celebration all through while the election was short merely because they were all in one accord. “It was very important that we had this congress so that it is on record that ADC followed due process. We have good structures and intention of making Nigeria great but we have to start with our party, which is what we have done today,” Ashiru said.