 There are plans by the Lagos State Chapter of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), to smuggle an aspirant into the race for Lagos West senatorial seat, after the deadline for the submission of forms and screening of aspirants. A party source, who frowned at the development, said although he did not know what politics was going on in Lagos, some of the national executives of the party were disappointed at the desperation by the party leadership in the state  to smuggle a yet-to-be identified aspirant into the race for Lagos West  Senatorial seat after deadline. According to the source, three people bought the form for Lagos West senatorial district, but two returned their forms and were screened by the party, not worried, however, why the third person refused to turn in her form. The three candidates are the Senior Special Assistant to President Muhammadu Buhari on Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), Adejoke Orelope-Adefulire; former Nigeria’s High Commissioner to Ghana, Senator Musiliu Obanikoro and Akeem Opeifa. But, while Obanikoro and Opeifa returned their form, Orelope-Adefulire did not, and waited till the deadline for submission closed and screening done for the two others. The source noted that the APC in Lagos, has since been trying desperately to turn in the third form, albeit for another person entirely, using the offices of the National Secretary, Senator Iyiola Omisore and the National Organising Secretary, Suleiman Argungun. THISDAY’s checks  showed that Orelope-Adefulire did not turn in her form or show up for screening, because she did not resign as instructed by President Buhari to any of his aides eyeing political offices. “Rather than leave her current job that is certain and paying well, the  woman did her mathematics and realised it was better to remain where she was and she stayed back. But why the party leadership wanted to field a third person for the same seat, when already there are two for it is what I don’t know. Isn’t it to their advantage that this will reduce tension for that contest?,”  the source said.