Reverend  Dr.  Gilbert Irifori Oghifo, the Minister in Charge of First Baptist Church in Ughelli, Delta State, officially steps down honourably tomorrow, Sunday May 29, 2022, after leading the church for the mandatory period. He discusses his missionary journey with Funmi Ogundare Tell us about your journey as a Reverend of the Baptist Church I started my pastoral work after graduation from the seminary in 1981. I had a call at Okotie Eboh Memorial Baptist Church Sapele December that year. So I spent five years there, it was an eventful ministry. God chose to bring me down to Ughelli. You know, I will not forget my Baba S.A Akakporo who came to Sapele to inform me that they needed me in Ughelli. I had to resign my appointment in Sapele and take up the appointment here in Ughelli, and the people welcomed me, the elders, the young people, they gave me a massive support that gave me a good foundation to be able to do one or two things we have on ground today. To date, I have spent a total of 40 years, you know five years in Sapele, 35 years plus, because January first this year 2022 was my 25 years in this church. You see, if we add the five years in Sapele it is 40 years. I just thank God for his grace and I have no regrets, just as we are made to understand in our Moto at the Baptist Seminary in Ogbomosho (Osun State), “In Christ I Trust, in HIM I have no regrets”. These 40 years of ministering, in fact, I call it part one of my ministry. The supporting roles played by my mother, father, my wife, children, family, uncles, aunts, brothers and sisters are all very important. They added to my success. What memorable experiences and challenges can you share with us? Well, life is full of challenges, but I won’t look at them as anything and forget what lies behind, my attitude is whether achievements or challenges, I am pressing forward for a greater opportunity in the Lord’s Vineyard and above all, my gain is Christ even as he gained me and I apprehended even Christ even had apprehended me, that is my goal. Well, my challenges were interesting, they didn’t disturb me and I won’t look at them as something to refer to, rather they became my stepping stones to achieve the little I could achieve today. As a young Pastor, who inspired you in your ministry? So yes, my number one is Revered S.A Akakporo my real mentor, Late Baba Orikri of First Baptist Church Warri, he is late now, Baba Reverend Ezaza, the Visitor, because he visits a lot even as pastor. He means a lot, S.A Agbaluwa, Reverend S.S Ogboru, Reverend J.O Akunu, Reverend Doctor Ewumere Enumate, they influence me a lot, and they have their own character. Another mentor was Rev. A.Y Ogwori. They all influenced me directly, consciously and unconsciously. My uncles, Deacons like A.T Onosode, my Uncle Ray Okerentie of blessed memory. Uncle Raymond was like a “mother” to me, my mother and family and the church family that helped me to behave myself. But the greatest one is the Lord Jesus himself and Apostle Paul, I want to be like him. What would you say is your legacy in this church? Well, as for legacy there are a lot of things we introduced when I came. But the first one we introduced was the fasting and prayer ministry. That is our power-nerve of this church and has kept the church going. Today it is called the Midweek “Sunday” Service. We also introduced the house fellowship that helps to keep us as one family – fellowshiping from house to house as was done in the Bible. It helped us a lot during the COVID period. The house fellowships are conducted in zones and the leaders are wonderful. We brought in the Communion Service, which takes place twice in a month. As I said, there are very many things we introduced, to ensure we follow the teachings of our Lord Jesus Christ. Then there is this huge magnificent church building you see here. Perhaps the biggest church building in the whole of Delta State. It was built through the hard work and commitment of members of this church and our well wishers far and near. The members are wonderful people to have been able to raise up this structure- all the leaders who assisted and the various committees, including the building committee. They have done so much to effect the changes that we have today. We were able to achieve this as a result of their cooperation. I’ll mention just a few. What advice will you give to young Pastors to enable them succeed in their ministry? My advice for them is that they should learn patience, whether in Baptist and non Baptist denominations, but mainly in Baptist. Patience, faith and then be a teacher of the word, teach the word and preach the gospel, be an example in your conduct of life, love the people as Christ loves you. Patience and faith determination to succeed to be like Christ. Patience, Faith!!! Teach it very well and if you teach very well the members will not leave you. On the pulpit, teach them. I can’t do without that because Christ did teach it 99 per cent of HIS teachings, so teach them even if they leave you they will come back. Know your people and identify with them at all times and as Christ loves you, love them. My thought is, if you do not fight the Devil he will fight you, so fight him because he will fight you, keep your promises, keep your friends, if you do not keep your promises you will lose your friends. This is my slogan. Another is finance, I do not tamper with church finance, good recording ability brings good business success. Those are my three business slogans. If I want to preach, I do sing one song “siobo ku me Baba viobo kume”. It simply means I need wisdom that I do not have enough. Then a song I learnt in Ilaje Language when I visited there during my ministry “Walu mi Olorun Walumi Walumi Aire shishe turami walumi kive fatakaraye”, which means come and use me Lord come and use, come and use me for the work you have sent me help me so that the world will not influence me, will not put me aside. Come and use me, come and use me. That song gives me motivation. I have many songs, I have so many special songs.