 Delegates from the Pit of Hell We are really doomed if these set of Nigerians that we are calling delegates are the ones we are relying on to throw up responsible leadership in the next dispensation. What we have just done is put together a grouping of financial bandits and pushed our future for them to mold and hold. The stories coming out from all over the country would make the gamblers in Vegas look like children. These ones are in one huge Stock Exchange where cash is being exchanged on a daily basis without any cognisance to the very real issue of leadership. The issue for these sets of people is cash. Cash is king; cash is the currency. It is to the highest bidders. Nothing else matters. All over the country across every party line. Delegates are now the new moguls. They answer only to money. That this is very sad is stating more than the obvious. What kind of leadership will all these throw up if not casino-driven leadership? The whole exercise is further killing the Naira as the currency they now understand is dollars and nothing more. We need to reform the system, restructure it all and realign our common sense. All these ‘Kalo kalo’ delegates must all be swept away. I think we can attempt a reset in time for 2027. 2023 is over. It will throw up the same monsters. Just look at all the ‘bandits’ staking a claim to leadership and you will see that Nigerians are in for a long dark ride. My advice is that we should just slide. Allow this process to come to an end and then just hunker down for another four years of gloom as we work assiduously towards building new structures. Let’s look at Nigeria like a car with a worn out engine. So, we will buy a new engine and replace the old one so that the jaga-jaga car can have a new lease of life. We are all in a plane that is about to crash land or is crash landing sef. We don’t need to panic, we should all just put our heads between our legs and hunker down. Once the plane hits pay dirt, some people will die – these delegates and their poisonous ogas – and the rest of us will now have enough leverage to rebuild a new country. This is what we should do. mple. Peter Obi: On the Rock We Slip? Just as I was about to refocus my energies towards his candidacy, the man messes up. You see, I don’t know why people are just so terrible students of history. How for the life of me will you now deliberately put another layer between you and the presidency. If you could not defeat the powers that be within the PDP, is it APC’s incumbency you will now use one ‘yeye’ structure to defeat? This Peter Obi must really have started believing all his village postulations that are making him feel that he can take the Presidency from any platform. Let me tell him very straight. There is nothing colourful about your candidacy, you have no charisma and you have no energy to push forcefully at the crown. So, if you start believing your own (expletive), you will have yourself to blame. The truth is that your message resonates with the ‘idle elitist minority’ who will not vote, do not control any structure and will not have a voice. So, it’s not by going to one pastor’s platform or Classic radio to pontificate about data every SS3 student of economics knows or shouting ”I am a trader, I cannot thief,” that will deliver. For instance, Wike has used all the Rivers State Government money to tie down the delegates, then go sit down with him and wrestle him to the ground. Let him see the folly of his act that he will be thoroughly disgraced in a general election and as such his lot will be better with you. Offer him a deal or something and where he will not see reasons like I know he will not see; you wait him out within the structure. He will do his ‘gra gra’, carry on in the general election and run back with his tail between his legs and come back for your help. This is how they build momentum, not to jump into one unknown entity with the hope that the 5,000 people hailing you will deliver the presidency from one unknown party. The structure is on the ground and is controlled by demagogues in both APC and PDP. If after all these years in politics you do not know that, then you cannot have my time. There is no morality in this thing, it’s raw power. Stay and fight for it and if you cannot win, you go home and impregnate your wife and if you cannot do it, let’s know. Rochas Okorocha’s Prayers Are Unanswered Did you see the video of Owelle on the floor praying to his god to come and save him from the marauding EFCC. I think his god did not answer him because he disrespected that one. How can you be making that kind of supplication and still be recording it and broadcasting live on Instagram. What if the god wanted to come down and have a discussion with you, that is how he will reveal his nakedness to us. His god just said: “This one is never serious. He dey pray, dey film am, they do commentary on top. You will eat that beans.” Another reason his god did not come down was because he showed fear. Didn’t he read the story of Peter. Not the big-headed trader who just left PDP, but the real Peter who said, ‘Lord, if you are the true one, let me walk on top of the water’ and he started walking on top of water and when he started showing fear, he began to sink. See our God does not like fear. You cannot be praying to him and at the same time be crying in Igbo: “Ewo, they are coming o, they are entering the roof.” Didn’t you see Daniel in the lion’s den? He stood there and proclaimed the Lord as Almighty and the lions changed their minds about having him for dinner and went to look for some APC delegates to munch. But seriously, which kind of man is this sef. Groveling on the floor in front of his wife and daughters. Kai, me I will not o. How will the women in his household be looking at ‘daddy’ like this. See me, when EFCC came for me, they said, “are you Joseph Edgar?” I told them yes. They said “you are under arrest.” I replied: “I will follow you if you sign undertaking that nobody will beat me, nobody will sexually molest me. Once that is guaranteed, let’s go” The officers were very professional. They gave me their word and until I left, nobody touched me. So, this our Owelle, I no understand this kind fear. You sha missed the opportunity. If I were you, I would stand at my door very erect and proclaim to the whole world like Schwarzenegger,” I’ll be back.” But this Owelle na to roll for ground, dey piss for body, after now he go want be Commander-in-Chief of Armed Forces. Which one? Abeg dey go. Fear kill you there. Kai. EFCC’s Lackluster Performance You know I have friends there. George Ekpungu your Board Secretary is a friend and brother. Make I first mention him name in case this yab no siddon well with some people there make them no come try ‘Okorocha’ me. You see a professional body like yours with such a fine Oga like that una Bawa should not be doing like an agbero rag tag army. Which one is breaking into someone’s house from the roof? The optics are so bad and paints the institution as one without finesse. So Owelle lock him door, he no gree come out na to go hire agbero and carpenter to break in? Please you guys should learn from other climes. Noreiga ran into the Vatican Embassy in his bid to escape the US Forces. They didn’t climb on the roof and be doing like unhinged wrestler. They started playing hard rock music day and night, which irritated the priests to the point they drove Noreiga out. You see, EFCC we are in a digital age and as such our tactics must reflect the age and exposure. To fish out Owelle is very easy na. You go wait for him. You surround his house and stay there for as long as it takes him to wave white flag. Hungry will catch him, he will want to see his side chick, his wife go don nag am tire to the point, he will be the one that will be begging you to take him away. Or you begin playing Hope Uzodimma inaugural speech in the loudest form repeatedly all over the place, Owelle will forget his God o. So, I beg you people, leave all these Abacha style. Let’s reform the institution, let’s be more professional. Leave carpenter work for carpenter or demolition work for El-Rufai and present to the world that EFCC is such a fine institution. Meanwhile, please don’t vex o. Na Folarin say I should ask this question. Owelle has been going all over Abuja for the past few months campaigning for an election he can never win right under your nose and under bail conditions that he had flouted and you people did not catch him o. Why come to catch him on the day of APC screening? Like I said, it is Folarin that says I should ask. He is from Epe and went to Command Secondary School, Ipaja. He drives a brown Toyota Corolla and he dey wear glasses. He has a portrait of Awo on his bedroom wall. You can send the answer to him or you catch him and tell him the answer. Please, me I don’t have energy for una matter. I am dealing with my own here, one woman call me slut o. Me, Duke Slut. Kai. IPOB: A Strong Appeal for Calm When pregnant women and children are beginning to be slaughtered then it can no longer be a legitimate agitation. It is now pure criminality. One baba said that when you start something, you never know the dimensions it will take in reference to Nnamdi Kanu. While he is wearing Fendi up and down in court and doing photo ops with his governor and his lawyers, mayhem is being unleashed on the very people he is trying to free. Please IPOB, this is a direct appeal to you guys. It’s enough, na beg we dey beg. We are not arguing again, please spare the lives of your own people o. These are not ‘Fulani’ killing Igbos again na. This is pure bloodletting among brothers. The video of the beheaded law man is still fresh in our minds. Biko, IPOB or whoever it is that is behind all these mayhems, kindly take heart. Your children are begging. Please stop making them orphans. This is the largest killings of Igbos by Igbos at any time in our recent history. Please na beg. Let’s come to the table and discuss. You know we have a serious-minded Governor – Soludo- I don’t know about the rest, at least we can start the talking from there. There is too much blood flowing on the streets of the South East. Too much. We are united in grief. Adam Namadi Sambo: Nothing Else to Say You see this matter of delegates that we have talked about, I have just read a report where this young man who is the son of the former Vice President is asking for his money back since he didn’t win the nomination after spending a whopping N75 million. Senator Shehu Usman has been tweeting on how some people have used bandits to recover N100m from these new set of thieves that we call delegates. How can a system so fraught with corruption and corrosive processes throw up credible leadership. It is safe to say that everybody involved in the candidates that it will throw up is a thief. Our next president will also be a thief. Simple. Come and beat me. If this boy can spend N75m on these rogues, you can imagine how much our next President will spend to arrive at his destination. No respect for him. Simple. Our democracy is of thieves, for thieves and by thieves. This is our gift to the world. Oh Jehovah, where are you? Come down with the fire of Damocles and destroy us all. Amen.  I am in tears. Ahmed Mohammed Ahmed – A Passionate Leader This is the Artistic Director/CEO of the Nigerian National Troupe. Please don’t mind the headline, he is not a delegate or a politician but a long-suffering and passionate technocrat. I was looking for him for something and put in a call. He was on his way to Bauchi by bus. I said, “Lord, you no dey fear?* And he answered, “What can we do, we have to do the work.” When I eventually met him at his National Theatre office, I brought up the issue. He said, “Edgar, I was the keynote speaker at a workshop. I had to be there. I entered the bus, said my prayers and we moved.” He has been appointed to revamp the national troupe which I must say is a brilliant institution that if properly engaged would go a long way in not only redeeming our image as a country globally but also serve as a major vehicle for growth in the economy. Ahmed is perfect for the role. He has the right aptitude, right energy and is technically competent. I like him. You see what a bottle of Maltina will do for you. As I was leaving, he insisted that I take a drink and see as the drink dey make me hail am for national newspaper? Kai, I worse pass the APC and PDP delegates. Israel and Funmilayo Kuti:  A Beautiful Story You know Nigerians don’t have a sense of history. Very few of us understand how history plays a role in our lives and our present circumstances. For us, doing Owambe and the rest plus surfing the internet and ogling at Toke Makinwa’s latest butt enlargement is our idea of history. Anyways, on a recent trip to Abeokuta, I decided to visit the Kuti family’s house. Now the house has been turned into a historical monument and refurbished by Senator Amosun’s administration. The house itself is very, very beautiful. It had been left in its original state and you could see the upper middle-class life the Kutis’ lived. The father’s bedroom as a revered reverend who had a unique musical talent and the activist mothers’ room were all kept in pristine condition. I saw the desk she worked on and wrote all those powerfully acerbic letters that rankled the authorities. Remember she was the one who chased away Alake because of an archaic tax regime. What I discovered on that trip was that the great Fela took his grandfather’s music talent and added his mother’s brilliant activism to come out with a globally-recognised career. Please next time you are in Abeokuta, try to visit the house. It’s just N1,000 before you start saying you don’t have money o. On your way there, branch the Amala joint near NNPC, you will thank me. Clems Effanga: Reveals His Private Parts Clems is an astonishing fashion designer. A neo-modern artist who works perfectly in linen and cotton. His studios located at the prestigious Terra Kulture and the sleepy suburbs of Herbert Macaulay, Yaba are a study in artistic fashion. The other day, I wore his ‘pussy’ Shirt to a function and I was the cynosure of all eyes. He is expansive in his threading and his attention to detail remains quite enigmatic. In June, he will be showcasing his latest line tagged ‘-JE-the Private Parts’ to an exclusive crowd at his Terra Kulture studio. The pieces according to him will push the boundary, engage the surreal and play with people’s minds. With very strong muses like the legendary RMD who revel in his clothing, it is no wonder that people are eager to go see his private parts. Wonderful Akwa Ibom boy o.