* Urges party to remain focused Deji Elumoye in Abuja A former Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Timi Frank, has felicitated the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for conducting a free, fair, credible and transparent presidential primary election.Frank, in a statement in Abuja Sunday, also congratulated former Vice-President Atiku Abubakar for emerging as the presidential candidate of PDP for the 2023 poll. According to him, Atiku’s emergence as the presidential standard-bearer of the PDP is the best thing that has happened to the party and the country since 1999. He thanked the party’s ad hoc delegates for voting for a man of experience, capacity, competence, reach, exposure and blueprint to return the PDP to power at the centre, as well as rescue the country from imminent collapse. Frank said: “The emergence of Atiku Abubakar as the presidential flag bearer of the Peoples Democratic Party is not only commendable but a golden dawn for the party to bounce back to power. “The PDP has gotten it absolutely right so far, all that remains is for the party to be focused, committed and resolute to achieve its aim of forming and administering the next government at the centre. “There is no doubt that Atiku has all it takes to win votes to help the party realise its dream of returning to power, but the party needs to continue on the part of solidarity by making the necessary sacrifices to remain cohesive, united and impregnable to achieve the ultimate goal of occupying Aso Rock Villa in 2023. “We thank all other presidential aspirants for their sacrifices and passion for a positive paradigm shift in the governance of the country. All of you are winners.” Frank also commended all ad hoc delegates to the convention for listening to our plea to shun monetary inducements and vote according to their conscience and for voting for Atiku to emerge as the presidential candidate of the party. “This is the time for the PDP to return to the drawing board, appease all aggrieved presidential aspirants and ensure that the party goes into the 2023 presidential election with a solid and united front. “We are confident that Atiku has all it requires to ensure that the PDP wins the 2023 presidential election and return the PDP to power in 2023. “This is the goal and the party cannot afford to allow sentiments, selfishness and divided loyalties to deny it of the ultimate prize,” he said.