 Hammed Shittu in Ilorin The Kwara State Government has announced during the weekend that it has finalised arrangement a new Ilorin Urban Master Plan that would reposition the state capital for sustainable economic development over the next 20 years. The government also said that it is set to ensure effective and efficient implementation of the plan, which would be presented to the general public on Wednesday, May 11, 2022, in Ilorin. The Executive Chairman, Kwara State Geographic Information Service (GIS), Mr. Abdulmutalib Shittu, declared this in Ilorin while speaking with journalists on the new Ilorin Master Plan. Shittu said that the new master plan is the second of its kind since the creation of the state in 1975. He said: “The first was designed in 1976 during the regime of David Bamgboye and expired 21 years ago. “It was long overdue to address the issues of a growing population in Ilorin, plans for road expansion, wastage disposal/management and other aspects that make safe and decent human living possible. “The new master plan would have such infrastructure as industrial park, bus mass transit, model international market, special economic zones, new cities, such as new education and residential cities, among others.” Shittu added that the project outlined the challenges and prospects, including action plans for sustainable development of the state that would cover trade and investment, healthcare, agriculture, transportation, housing, tourism, education, and infrastructure, among other sectors. He also said that the plan is expected to take care of perennial flooding, strong windstorm and other natural phenomenon in the state capital, adding that proper survey of flood prone areas had been studied. He said: “Ilorin is growing with about 3.5 million populations and there is the need to plan ahead for that future growth. “To design the plan according to reality and global standards, the state government appointed the services of Dar Al-Handasah Consultant Limited in February 2021, which set out immediately on in-field data collection and stakeholders’ engagement, population estimates and projections, urban and rural conditions, institutional framework and social infrastructure as well as economic baseline and emerging prospects for the capital city. “It is inclusive and encompassing. The master plan will be handy for development partners, and local and foreign investors, putting Kwara as the go-to place in North Central for investments and partnerships. “We are very convinced that Ilorin Urban Master Plan does not only lay the foundation for future major residential and economic developments in the city, it also seeks to position the state as the most appealing in Nigeria to live and do business. It is a bold vision of providing the best quality of life for all.”