 Ndubuisi Francis in Abuja Following the current investigation of the Accountant-General of the Federation (AGF), Alhaji Ahmed Idris (AGF) by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC)  (AGF) over alleged financial impropriety, the federal government has appointed Mr. Anamekwe Chukwunyere Nwabuoku to oversee the Office of the Accountant-General of the Federation (OAGF). Idris was last week suspended indefinitely by the federal government following his arrest by the EFCC over alleged diversion of public funds to the tune of N80 billion.In a letter dated May 20, 2022 and signed by the Permanent Secretary (Finance),  Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Aliyu Ahmed, Nwabuoku was appointed pending the outcome of the investigation.In this position, he is expected to carry out his duty in strict compliance with extant rules and observe the highest sense of professionalism expected of an officer working at his level. A statement released by Yunusa Tanko Abdullahi, Special Adviser, Media & Communications, Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Mrs. Zainab Ahmed, said Nwabuoku was born October 15, 1962 to the family of Mr. Robert O. Anamekwe in Ehime Mbano Local Government Area of Imo State.He holds a Higher National Diploma (HND) in Accountancy from the Institute of Management and Technology (IMT), Enugu and a Master of Science (M.Sc) in Financial Management from Commonwealth University, Belize. He started his civil service career with the Centre for Democratic Studies (CDS) and rose to the position of Principal Accountant between 1992 and 1995. He was deployed to the Office of the AGF, Abuja from 1996 to 2001 as Assistant Chief Accountant. He served at the National Assembly, Office of the Senate President between 2001 and 2003 as Special Assistant to the Senate President on Public Affairs.His duties included advisory services to the Senate President on media and other issues. He assumed duty as Chief Accountant in the Ministry of Defence Headquarters, Abuja and served as Head of Accounts Administration.Following his promotion to Assistant Director Accounts, he was placed in charge of Funds in the Ministry between 2009 and 2012. He became a Deputy Director (Accounts) in 2012 and was deployed to the Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF) as Supervisory Officer of Ecological Funds Accounts and other related matters. Nwabuoku was promoted to Director (Accounts) in 2017 and was posted to the Office of the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation. He was the Director ( Finance and Accounts), Ministry of Defence, Headquarters, Abuja between May 2019 and March, 2021.Currently, he is Director, Inspectorate Office of the Accountant-General of the Federation, and he is presently overseeing the office of the Accountant  General of the Federation (OAGF).Nwabuoku, who has attended several management courses both locally and internationally, is Fellow, Institute of Chattered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN); Fellow, Charttered Institute of Taxation of Nigeria (CITN), and member of Nigeria Institute of Management ( NIM).