* Urges APC leadership not to upturn his victory Kemi Olaitan A senatorial aspirant for Oyo Central senatorial district on the platform of All Progressives Congress (APC), Mr. Faozey Nurudeen, Monday, said he was the winner of the primary held in the senatorial district in Moniya area, Ibadan, on Saturday. Nurudeen while speaking with journalists in Ibadan, through the Director-General of his campaign organisation, Alhaji Semiu Alebiosu, called on the leadership of APC to declare him as the winner because he was the one that scored the highest number of votes during the primary. No fever than seven aspirants on the platform of APC indicated interest to represent Oyo Central senatorial district with 11 local government areas spread across Ibadan (five) Oyo (four) and Ogbomoso (two). The local government areas are Atiba, Afijio, Oyo East, Oyo West, Akinyele, Egbeda, Lagelu, Oluyole, Ona Ara, Surulere and Ogo Oluwa. Nurudeen however maintained that he was the one that scored the highest number of votes, 300 in the primary election hence the party should declare him the winner, insisting that he was the winner of the primary election, because none of the other aspirants scored what he got in the election as declared by the returning officer.He added that he scored the highest votes to defeat Dr. Yunus Akintunde, who scored 114 votes, Hon. Bimbo Kolade, who scored 30 votes, Mr Oyeleru Oyedemi, who scored 43 votes and Senator Ayo Adeseun, who scored 0 vote, stating that it will be wrong to declare someone who came second as the winner of an election held in a democratic setting. According to him, “I was the winner of the APC primary election held in Oyo Central. I scored 300 votes. The election was held on Saturday and presided over by Mrs Ajibike. It was held at Royal Seed Event Centre, Moniya, Ibadan. “I scored 300 votes ahead of Dr Yunus Akintunde (114), Hon. Bimbo Kolade (30), Mr Oyeleru Oyedemi (43) and Senator Ayo Adeseun (0). So, how can someone who came second be announced as the winner of the election. I am appealing to the APC leadership not to upturn my victory. I won the election”.