 Eni Olukotun writes that Femi Gbajabiamila’s record gives a new burst of optimism for another legislative term He was a renowned lawyer in the United States where he built a sparkling legal career before he returned home to contest for the House of Representatives election in 2003.  Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila settled with the progressives, the defunct Alliance for Democracy (AD). His family has a rich political pedigree rooted in progressivism. He flew the flag of the party to represent Surulere Federal Constituency One in the House of representatives. Gbajabiamila won on a landslide scale. Back-to-back, the constituents saw his sterling performance on the floor of the green chamber and numerous projects he attracted to the area, they resolved to re-elect him in 2007,2011,2015 and 2019.  He built trust with the people and maintains consistency in his political journey. He never contemplated jumping the progressives ship even when the hope of clinching power at the centre appeared unrealistic. He stood with his party men and joined in defeating the behemoth Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) that once bragged to rule for 60 years. The projected 60 years was truncated and cut short to 16. As the minority leader, he was vocal and dogged. Gbajabiamila blessed with the gift of garb protected the interest of the minority caucus and that of Nigeria. He is a pan-Nigeria who is versed in the dynamics of multi-cultural Nigeria. So, when he eventually emerged the Speaker of the House in 2019, Nigerians who have been keeping track of his activities in the green chamber over the years knew that the robust legislative experience Gbajabiamila had garnered over the years will reflect in the quality of bills, motions, interventions and other legislative business. Gbajabiamila has not dropped the ball as the Speaker of the House in the Ninth National Assembly. He was very clear of his vision from day one. He declared that his legislative agenda will be revolutionary, a departure from the seeming lustre legislative leadership of the past. He forged a strong alliance with the Executive arm of government without being subjected to it. It is all in the public interest. He reasoned that needless acrimony and power tussle will further heat up the polity and impact negatively on the people. On more than one occasion, he intervened in national crises and brought succour to the people. Gbajabiamila was in Ghana when Nigerian traders and other foreign nationals were threatened with draconian trade policy. When the xenophobic attacks on Nigerians in South Africa occurred, the Speaker didn’t pass the buck to the Executive. He rose to the occasion and joined in the concerted efforts at rescuing trapped Nigerians in the foreign country. His achievements as Speaker are numerous. Within two years of his leadership, 41 bills were passed out of the 853 bills considered within the period, 105 passed second reading and 66 bills are awaiting actions by the Committee. Over 730 pro-people motions have been raised by members under the same period. Over 163 petitions received by the House which were transferred to the committee on Public Petitions for consideration. The Petroleum Industry and Governance Bill (PIB) that has been lingering for years got accelerated attention. This passage of the bill led to the unbundling of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC). It addresses the concerns of all stakeholders including the oil producing communities. The grundnorm, the most important national document – Constitution also got amended. Public hearings were held across the six geo-political zones and memoranda were submitted by interest groups and other concerned bodies. The preponderance of thoughts was reviewed and refined into the new amendments. The electoral Act that has been a recurring subject of discourse also got the required attention of the Gbajabiamila house. The document was strengthened to improve the nation’s electoral system. The national interest was the guiding compass for the National Assembly as self-serving interests were sacrificed for the national good. The restoration of the January to December budget circle is another major achievement that the Gbajabiamila-led administration will be remembered for. The order in the budgetary system enlisted Nigeria among a comity of nations that are progressing. That is not all. In the heat of the COVID-19 pandemic, the speaker was the leading voice that was advocating comfort for the vulnerable who were badly hit by the pandemic. He made a case for health workers who are the frontline fighters combating the scourge. The argument of the Minister of Health on hazard allowances could not fly with the speaker. Life is more than anything. Then those who are putting their own lives in danger for others to live deserve their rewards. The health workers returned back to work at various health facilities on the intervention of Gbajabiamila. Other industrial tussles didn’t go without the interventions of the proactive speaker. The Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) that have been at loggerheads with the federal government got the attention of the speaker many times. It appears they believe him more than any other person in this present government. At his Surulere Constituency, the speaker connected and bonded with the people by always seeking ways of providing for their welfare. He has attracted not a few projects to his constituency from the federal government. Roads, schools, hospitals, street lights and other infrastructure to the people of Surulere Federal Constituency 1. From Bishop Street to Olufemi Street among others, the excellent footprint of Gbajabiamila dotted the entire Surulere. Education sector is paramount to him. Scores of secondary schools in his constituency had got ICT Innovation centres. Tertiary institutions in Lagos also got landmark projects. Therefore, as the 2023 general elections draw closer, the coast is clear for the performing speaker to return to the green chamber. Who can rival Gbaja in Surulere? He has become an Iroko, a formidable force that could not be moved. In Surulere Federal Constituency One, it is Gbaja’s turf. He is contesting against himself. Olukotun writes from Lagos