 In true Ramadan spirit, Nigeria’s number one malt brand, Maltina, leveraged the holy month to connect with the Muslim consumers through sharing and giving accompanied with show of quality love and care across the country through different mediums and touchpoints, in line with the brand promise of igniting happy moments. As Muslim faithful all over the world recently celebrated the Ramadan, Maltina visited selected mosques and communities during the fasting period, to share Maltina goodies and care products and brand packages containing meal packs and chilled Maltina for Iftar and after the evening prayers. The company said: “As one of the most important months in the Islamic calendar, the month of Ramadan encourages Muslim faithful to do more than avoid eating and drinking during daylight hours. Through the practice of fasting, the holy month emphasises the values of empathy, generosity and caring, encouraging Muslim faithful to practice true religion by showing love to others around them and giving to the less-privileged which are in line with the teachings and practices of the Prophet Mohammed.” As the Maltina truck moved from mosque to mosque, its official stated that no doubt, Iftars strengthen the bonds between families, friends and neighbours as they gather to eat and pray, leading to meaningful and powerful connections. “In line with its commitment to ‘care, share and give’ with Muslim faithful in the holy month of Ramadan, the Maltina brand stormed the cities of Kaduna, Lagos, Kano and Zaria with sponsorship of Quranic competitions which is essentially about promoting Arabic studies in students aged 10 to 15 competing for cash prize of N100,000, N70,000, N50,000 for the first winner, second and third respectively tagged: ‘Maltina Eid Storm’. “Muslims who gathered for the prayers to mark the beginning of the Sallah celebrations were pleasantly surprised by a very generous show of love by Maltina as they received branded praying mats, kettles and other branded Islamic products. Also, Muslim teens and preteens who participated in the Maltina Qur’anic quiz, experienced an exceptional Eid-el-fitr celebration,” its officials said. To encourage their budding devotion to Allah and groom them into the Muslim faithful of the future, Maltina stated that these young ones were tested on the knowledge of the Quran and the tenets of Islam. While all participants received fantastic prizes, emerging winners took home a whooping hundred thousand naira cash prize. Some of the highlights, it said, was the powering of the most anticipated musical concert in the northern part of Nigeria. The concert known as Arewa Sallah Festival was a week-long event held in Gidan Zoo in Kano and exclusively powered by the Maltina brand. “To mark a beautiful end to the sacred month of fasting and usher in Sallah with excitement and celebrations, different Muslim fêtes and carnivals were organised across the country – one of which is the Kano Sallah Concert. Maltina left its signature of love and care on the exhilarating event by partnering with the organisers of the Kano Sallah Concert to provide chilled bottles of Maltina to over 5,000 Muslim faithfuls as they enjoyed electrifying musical performances and thrilling comedy with friends, family and loved ones,” it stated.