 Emmanuel Ugwu-Nwogo    in Umuahia The Founder/General Superintendent of Deeper Life Bible Church, Pastor William F. Kumuyi, has embarked on a crusade to shake off the stranglehold of evil forces of bad governance from Abia ahead of the forthcoming general election. Speaking at a pre-crusade press conference in Aba, the Overseer Deeper Life Church Abia State 2, Pastor Obinna Nkemjika, flanked by the leadership of the state chapter of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), said that the state was poised to benefit from the life-changing global crusade that has been sweeping across the nation over the past nine months. “We are bringing to Abia the goodness of what has been happening since nine months now,” he said, adding that it is an opportunity for Abia people and residents, including politicians, to come and renew their lives in order to get things right and elect God-fearing servant leaders. According to him, the global crusade tagged, ‘Jesus Power for Extraordinary Breakthrough’ billed for the commercial city of Aba would hold between May 24 and 29, 2022, featuring salvation, healing deliverance and miracles, all geared to put Abia and its people in good stead for a great turnaround. The Overseer of the Deeper Life Bible Church Abia State 2 noted that “there is a lot of fear in our nation” but God is using his ministers to bring deliverance to the people, and “now it is the turn of Abia (God’s Own State) to witness the great things” that God has been using Pastor Kumuyi to do through the crusade. He stated that political, economic and social dislocation in Abia and Nigeria in general has gone beyond the power of what human leaders could remedy hence the need to invoke divine intervention. “Abia needs prayer. God is set to bring us hope in the midst of hopelessness, healing in the midst of sickness. The General Superintendent is coming to pray for Abia for an extraordinary breakthrough,” Pastor Nkemjika said. Chairman of CAN in Abia, Apostle General Emmanuel Agomuo, said that the association was fully collaborating with Deeper Life Bible Church to make the crusade a resounding success from which Abia would reap bountiful blessings. “CAN is part of this programme. A lot of (unsavoury) things have happened in Abia and the state needs a great man of God to deliver it,” he said. He therefore called on all Christians in Abia and environs to fully participate in the programme which would hold at the Aba Mega Mall, Osisioma, along Aba-Port Harcourt Expressway. “We should come and present Abia State before God to heal the land,” Apostle Agomuo pleaded, assuring that “at the end of it all “there will be a change in Abia”. He said that the leadership of CAN would mobilise Abia politicians to participate in the “wholistic crusade” during which “they would be told what to do and what not to do in their relationship with the people they are serving.”