HighLife  There is nothing more rewarding than a good day’s job. This is a feeling that is gradually losing its place among Nigerians, especially those of the younger generation. Nevertheless, there are still a few people who hold up this banner of diligence and good work. When such individuals are celebrated, the whole world gets to know them. This was how it went down with the 50th birthday celebration of Tokunbo Wahab, the Special Adviser on Education to Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu. It should not come as a surprise to anybody that there was a gathering of Lagos captains and commanders some days ago at the house of the Education Adviser, Wahab. As it was the latter’s birthday, all these otherwise busy fellows made sure to clear their tabs and get themselves to Wahab’s Banana Island home to celebrate him and they did this magnificently. The scale of the celebration can be understood from knowing the individuals that were present. These included Governor Sanwo-Olu, Deputy Governor Obafemi Hamzat; Chief of Staff Tayo Ayinde; Head of Service (HoS), Hakeem Muri-Okunola; Oba Saheed Ademola Elegushi of Ikate kingdom; Oba Abdulwasiu Omogbolahan Lawal of Iruland; Oba Olufolarin Olukayode Ogunsanwo of Ilara kingdom; Mayor Akinpelu Lamex; Chief Lekan Osifeso; Gbenga Obadina; Yemi Kuforiji; and many others. All of these personalities were on ground to raise a wine glass to Wahab. Of course, even though it was supposed to be a private affair, there was still wine and music. Jùjú legends, King Sunny Ade and Ebenezer Obey were also present to jazz things up. What a colourful ceremony it was, one befitting a man who has committed his best efforts to the betterment of the state.  Sanwo-Olu during his toast described him as a very reliable man and a great addition to his cabinet “Tokunbo Wahab is a colleague, a reliable friend, and somebody that is very passionate about whatever he sets his hand on. He has been a great addition to the journey of improving a Greater Lagos. He has been a strong resource to all of us in the cabinet.”/” There is no doubt that there is more to come from Wahab, despite all he has done so far. No wonder so many big caps came out to celebrate him.