 Our Reporters A former National Chairman of All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole; Plateau State Governor, Hon. Simon Lalong; Niger State Governor, Alhaji Sani Bello; former Ogun State Governor, Mr Gbenga Daniel and former Borno State Governor, Senator Kashim Shettima yesterday secured tickets to contest the 2023 senatorial elections on the platform of the APC. Former Senate Minority Leader, Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe, also secured the ticket of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), in Abia State. In the same way, Chairman, Southern Senators Forum, Senator Opeyemi Bamidele; Chairman, Senate Committee on Industries, Senator Adetokunbo Abiru and Chairman, Senate Committee on Finance, Senator Olamilekan Adeola won return tickets in their respective senatorial districts. Immediate past Minister of State for Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Tayo Alasoadura also clinched the ticket to run in Ondo Central. Oshiomhole clinched the senatorial ticket in Edo North unopposed after Senator Francis Alimikhena resigned his membership of the party and stepped down as an aspirant on Friday. Like Oshiomhole, former Borno State Governor, Senator Kashim Shettima won the return ticket of the APC to represent Borno with 479 votes. Shettima, who ruled the state as governor between 2011 and 2019, won the primary held at the State Secretariat in Maiduguri. In Niger State, Sani Bello clinched the senatorial ticket of the APC for Niger North. Bello defeated his only challenger, Senator Aliyu Sabi who was seeking a third term as senator by 335 votes to 7.In Edo South, Asuen defeated former deputy governor, Mr Lucky Imasuen as he scored 216 to 158 votes while four votes were voided. In Lagos East, Abiru won the ticket to contest the 2023 senatorial election unopposed, clearing all the 344 votes cast by delegates from wards in the local government areas under the district. In his acceptance speech, Abiru said that “I will not relent in his #DoingGood agenda for the people. I will continue to be passionate about ensuring the ‘greater good for the greater and larger number.” In Ekiti Central, Bamidele secured the return ticket on the platform of the APC, saying the extension of the primaries’ deadline by the INEC was not to favour APC.In Kaduna Central, Muhammad Abdullahi, Chief of Staff to Governor Nasir El-Rufai, yesterday emerged as the senatorial candidate of the APC. He returned unopposed in the primary election held at Umaru Musa Yar’Adua Hall, Kaduna after his two opponents, Usman Sani and Hajia Rabi Salisu withdrew from the contest shortly before the poll. In Kogi West, a former member of the House of Representatives, Hon. Sunday Karimi defeated the incumbent senator, Smart Adeyemi during the primary held in Kabba Jivco Hotel in Kabba yesterday. Karimi, who represented Yagba Federal Constituency between 2011 and 2016, defeated the incumbent senator and three others at the party’s poll with a margin of to emerge the senatorial candidate. In Niger East, Senator Sani Musa also emerged victorious in the contest. In the election held at the Idris Legbo Kutigi International Conference Centre, Musa garnered 494 votes to defeat his only challenger, Ibrahim Dada who polled two votes. In Ogun East, Mr Gbenga Daniel clinched the senatorial ticket of the APC. In Ogun West, Adeola won the senatorial ticket of the APC to defeat the incumbent senator, Tolu Odebiyi. Adeola, who is a second-term senator, polled 194 votes while his opponent did not secure any vote.