 Blessing Ibunge in Port Harcourt Vice President and presidential aspirant on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, has insisted that his party has the potential to give the country the best, including development. The VP who stressed the need for continuous unity of the party, expressed confidence that APC will return back to the presidency in 2023. Osinbajo stated this yesterday in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, during a meeting with critical stakeholders of the party in continuation of his nationwide consultations ahead of the primaries. Responding to questions from journalists at the end of the meeting, on the party unresolved crisis in Rivers, Osinbajo said: “I think we have a great party as you know, and what we have done here today is that we have discussed a wide number of issues, especially issues that concern our country and the development of our country. “We also agreed that the party needs to be united so anything that needs to be done is being done and will be done to ensure the unity of the party. “Our party is obviously as you know not just the ruling party but the party that has the greatest potential to do the best for this country. So, every little problem that we have we are going to resolve it because we have the capacity and the maturity to resolve all of those conflicts and problems”. Earlier, during his meeting with the party delegates, the presidential aspirant condemned the unnecessary conflict by some aspirants in the name of struggling for a political position. He commended the Rivers APC for the show of unity at his visit, saying that the party will also clinch the governorship office at the 2023 elections. He said APC has presented quality candidates that can win all the political seats across the country. “Everyone in APC is proud of the APC in Rivers State because those of us who have been in the opposition long enough know what it means to be an opposition party. That you are vibrant and able to come together in this large numbers shows that you have a vision, that you know where you are headed and you are led by a competent executive. “If we have a better logic, if we have a better argument and if we are better organised, ultimately we will win and i am very confident that the APC is poised to win and I am sure that we will win in this state (Rivers) and we will win in our country at large. “I am here as the presidential aspirant alongside several great aspirants including your son, Rotimi Amaechi. The good thing is that our party is able to accommodate so many contestants and it is a very good thing indeed that we can accommodate quality people from across our party who represent the same point of view because we are all progressives that this country can be better of. “I have pointed out everywhere I have gone that there is no need of conflict of any kind, especially among presidential aspirants. All of us who are presidential aspirants have either worked together, or eaten together at one place or the other. We are aspirants today but only one person will emerge. And we must be prepared to work with that person”, Osinbajo advised.