 Gilbert Ekugbe The Institute of Directors (IoD) Nigeria has emphasised on the need for economic managers to invest massively into digital economy to achieve accelerated economic growth and development. Besides, it added that the world has tilted into a knowledge-based economy as digital technology has helped people and businesses cope with challenges in both social and business endeavours. This was the crux of IoD’s 2022 Women Directors organised by the Women Directors’ Development Committee (WDDC) in Lagos recently. The Chairman of the Governing Council, IoD Nigeria, Mrs. Ije Jidenma, explained that for Nigeria to achieve its true potential, it needs to be empowered with the necessary digital competencies. “We now appreciate the need to identify and appreciate access to digital tools and technologies, while operating within a regulatory environment that protects the safety and interests of all stakeholders. Though digital technology has helped us to cope with the challenges in our social and business lives, it is essential that the productivity gains from digital technology adoption becomes less divisive, and more inclusive,” she said. “Therefore, better access to the sources of productivity, inclusive productivity measures, and coordinated and evidence-based policymaking are key to making digital technology benefit all,” she added. She said this year’s theme tagged ‘Virtually Unstoppable: Defining the New Inclusive Economy’ could not have come at a better time, noting that technology is clearly one of the major drivers of inclusiveness and a gamechanger for businesses as it eliminates barriers and provide speed and opportunities to scale-up. In her words: “Since then, technology had become a major agenda item for Boards. Our theme today is therefore apt and will focus on how Boards should organise, leverage, finance and monitor technology and the world of opportunities it creates, particularly for women.” According to her, the ongoing global digital revolution is no doubt transforming economies and driving innovation across all sectors, adding that despite the nation’s inherent challenges, the country has nevertheless expanded the use of technology to transform all sections and sectors of the economy, be it education, healthcare, agriculture, finance, telecommunications to mention a few. Also speaking, the Chairman, WDDC, Mrs. Debola Osibogun, said the annual luncheon is a flagship event of the Women Directors Development Committee aimed at effectively supporting women in their leadership roles in the public and private sectors of Nigeria. She said women from diverse walks of life come together to discuss issues about broadening the horizon and involvement of female directors. “The Luncheon therefore, is a forum for knowledge sharing and capacity development for female leaders, as well as an advocacy forum to continuously propound the importance and imperatives in creating gender-inclusive growth as a cornerstone of sustainable development,” he said.