 As the creative industry continues to grow and expand with many young Nigerians making waves and developing their creative mind, a new creative drive that will further add value to lives and generate wealth for the people, ‘Slum Gods’ has come alive. With creativity being an inexhaustible resource, similar to the inexhaustible inner drive to succeed, which is the major attribute of a ‘Slum Gods’, which is a generative and incubative space created to fan the flames of creativity. The ‘Slum Gods’ project which is being spearheaded by popular creative director and performing artiste, Oluwa St Gabriel, represents a space for boundless artistic expression in all forms. According to him, the platform will create safe space for creatives such as songwriters, 2D digital artists, traditional artistes, 3D artists, music producers and in-house marketing specialists amongst others to all converge and experiment with various forms of creativity. St Gabriel also hinted that the initiative will foster active and fruitful collaborations among various talents within the Slum Gods hub and also collaboration with creatives who are outside of the project. According to him, the ‘Slum Gods’ project was borne out of the desire to bridge the gap created by the literal and metaphorical slums in our daily lives, adding that the project is a representation of inspiration, adding that it is indicative of an individual who has transcended the hardships that they were born into or presented with at any point in life. “‘Slum Gods’ are people who have put in immense effort to shape themselves up powerfully as individuals and have sought to take control of their lives to create a new reality for themselves. “They struggled against the odds, beat the odds and have come out victorious despite the discouraging circumstances and surrounding negativity. “Our aim is to immortalize the real-life stories of such people on the blockchain (in turn, making them Gods). Their stories are a testament to the courage, grit and determination of a Slum God. These stories shall live forever on the blockchain as our self-written history and they can be read by kids who most need hope while they grow up under harsh conditions. “Our token holders shall enjoy memorable real-life and metaverse events. No stone shall be left unturned to create a one-of-a-kind experience for our supporters and members, which is on-brand with the Slum Gods spirit. More details shall be announced on all our social media handles as we proceed.”