 Chuks Okocha in Abuja Elder statesman and former National Assembly Adviser to former President Shehu Shagari, Tanko Yakassai, has said the “All Progressives Congress (APC) is duty bound to ensure that power shifts to the south.” He also accused those he described as ‘cabals’ in the presidency of masterminding politicians from the southern part of the country in the APC to contest for the presidential ticket of the party.The purpose, Yakassai said was to break the solidarity of the south for a southern presidential candidate of the party in the 2023 general elections. He also accused the Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) of supporting the motifs of the cabals in the presidency.According to the 97 years old politician, “we know it that all these presidential aspirants of the APC from the south are being encouraged by some cabals in the presidency for the purpose of breaking the clamour for a southern presidential candidate from the APC. “The cabals are doing it to break the ranks of the southern part of the country that are clamouring for a power shift,” the former aide to President Shagari said. He described the support of the Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) for the north retaining power as a harbinger of crisis, insisting that it was not the fault of anybody that the north presented “an incompetent person for presidency in 2015.” He explained further, “from 2015 to 2023, the Presidency of the country would have stayed in the north for eight years and therefore for equity and stability power should shift to the south and in fact to the geopolitical zone that have not have it since the return of democracy.” He explained that Buhari contested for the presidential elections three times and failed because he had no strong support from the south, but later in 2015, went into an alliance with the south-west and eventually won.He said, “for this reason, President Muhammadu Buhari himself should be the strong voice for power rotation and zoning. “For the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), it is not the party in power, but for the stability and giving a sense of belonging, I would support that it is zoned to the south and in the south-east in particular. “This will help to heal the wounds of the nation as was the case in 1999, went the country was bleeding as the result of the June 12 agitation,” he added. Like Yakassai, other stakeholders such as Chief Edwin Clark, Ayo Adebanjo of the Afenifere and the Middle Belt Forum have been agitating for a power shift to the southern part of the country, with some specifically saying it should be zoned to the south-east. Other PDP stakeholders like the former Minister of Police Affairs, Alhaji Adamu Waziri had called for an open ticket where the delegates to the presidential convention will decide the fate of who becomes the presidential candidate of the PDP.