 Kingsley Nwezeh in Abuja The Nigerian Army has added more fighting platforms to strengthen soldiers waging war against insurgents in the North-East and other parts of the country, says the Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt Gen Faruk Yahaya.The army chief stated this at the weekend, urging war commanders to remain professional in discharging their constitutional roles. Recently, the federal government announced procuring armoured tanks and other weapons to prosecute the war against terrorism.The army chief gave the charge while delivering a lecture, ‘My Vision for the Nigerian Army’ at AWCN, Asokoro, Abuja. Yahaya, who spoke to participants of the Army War College Nigeria(AWCN) Course 6/2022, stated “that more platforms will soon be injected into various theatres of operations,” commending the Ministry of Defence for overhauling some equipment. He expressed optimism that “these efforts will no doubt inject more vigour into the ongoing campaign against insurgency and other security challenges confronting the nation.” Yahaya said the army, under his watch, would continue to build personnel capacity by placing a premium on the training of officers and soldiers. The army chief noted that the timely rotation of troops and other welfare packages in various theatres of operations was implemented to boost troops’ morale.During an interactive session with the participants, he stated that the platform provided an opportunity for him to share his thoughts on contemporary issues and listen to their views and lessons learnt during their course at the apex army college. He pointed out that the lecture and interactive session would enhance the requisite knowledge required for operational level commanders of the army to discharge assigned tasks effectively. He asserted that the efforts would inject more vigour into the ongoing campaign against insurgency and other security challenges confronting the nation. Yahaya also affirmed that regimental sergeant majors (RSMs) of army formations and units were motivated to discharge their traditional roles of maintaining discipline and regimentation. He said the feat was achieved by building official residences and issuing brand new Hilux vans to provide a conducive working environment and ease of movement for RSMs.