 Fadekemi Ajakaiye Climate technology, and sustainability will be the focus of this year’s Real Estate Unite Summit, now in its 10th year. According to the organiser, 3INVEST, the Theme of the summit is ‘Towards a Sustainable Culture’ and it is scheduled to hold on May 30 and 31, 2022, at Eko Hotel, VI, Lagos. The annual real estate summit after two years of hiatus due to covid and unforeseen circumstances, said the company, in a statment. Real Estate Unite is the annual flagship event that provides an important platform for the built sectors in Africa to network, learn, transact, showcase and discuss opportunities and issues in global real estate yearly. With over 1000 participants, the Summit features a conference, exhibition, leader/women’s forum and a sustainability Awards. Technically, the land construction and real estate sector is one of the most influential globally when it comes to impacting the health and wellbeing of people and the environment. The real estate sector is responsible for 40% of all carbon emissions globally, the industry has both the obligation as well as the opportunity to make an extraordinary impact in creating a healthier, safer and cleaner planet. Therefore, for inclusive, economic growth and shared prosperity, the built environment as a matter of urgency must begin to take the lead in the plan, designing and managing more resilient and sustainable communities. To achieve this Real Estate Unite Summit has been redesigned to address the global challenges and encourage the built environment in Africa to embrace the sustainability culture. “Getting the real estate players to embrace sustainability is our collective goal. Our plan is to create a community of stakeholders who are passionate about sustainable development and culture. Encourage education and participation in sustainability-related activities. Recognise organizations that are taking the lead in sustainability and finally lobby for ESG regulations, policies and better incentives for this community” said the founder, Real estate Unite Summit Ruth Obih during the announcement ceremony. The built sector has a substantial sustainability impact through land development, resource use, waste generation and labour practices throughout its life cycle. The sector impacts either directly or indirectly the implementation of almost all United Nations (UN)Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). For the SDG goals to be achieved, we must encourage companies operating in the built sector and those that invest in, commission and use land and built assets to widen the scope of their current policies and strategies by identifying resilient options, business opportunities and operational challenges relating to all UN Global Compact issue areas. Some of the participating partners this year includes StanbiC IBTC, Broll, Mixta Africa, Address Homes, Elalan, Haven Homes, Lekki Garden, Afriland, Dutum, Purple, UPDC, Landwey, Karmod, Home works, Nedcom Oaks and Clifton Homes, Ghana. Regarded as one of the first ever sustainability events in Africa’s real estate sector, it will; Identify the global challenges and issues relating to sustainability in the built environment  and explore the strategy and practice of incorporating SDG and ESG factors in investment decisions; and recognize organizations embracing a sustainable culture. Also speaking at the press conference, “The Built sector must formulate new strategies and business processes to adapt to the rising challenges created by population growth, economic meltdown, unemployment and climate change. Therefore, it is imperative for companies to strive toward the attainment of the sustainable development goals by contributing toward economic growth, provision of affordable housing, creating employment opportunities and ensuring humanity has a conducive and habitable environment.” said Obih Organised by 3INVEST, a real estate company with an advocacy goal to educate, redefine and promote the African Real Estate industry exposing its huge potential for inclusive growth.