Two presidential aspirants on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Gov. Nyeson Wike of Rivers and his counterpart from Sokoto State, Alhaji Aminu Tambuwal, on Thursday in Ibadan, pledged to address the nation’s challenges, if given the opportunity to govern the country. Wike and Tambuwal made this promise separately, while addressing the party delegates from Oyo State ahead of the party’s national convention. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Wike, the first caller, was accompanied by the state governor, Seyi Makinde, to venue of the meeting at the Government House, Agodi in Ibadan, while Mr Dayo Ogungbenro, the State Chairman, later accompanied Tambuwal to the same venue to meet the delegates. While canvassing the delegates’ votes, Wike pledged to tackle insecurity, bad economy, infrastructure inadequacies and other challenges confronting the country. He further pledged to embrace restructuring and advance the creation of state police, if given the party’s ticket and eventually elected as the President. The Rivers Governor called on all the delegates from the state to give him their votes to become the party’s flagbearer in the Feb. 25, 2023 presidential election. Wike promised that he would not leave the party, even, if he didn’t win the presidential ticket, assuring that he would continue to work for PDP. He appealed to Nigerians to support people with good character and consistency to lead the country, in order to take it to greater heights. Also, Tambuwal, addressing the delegates, said he would ensure that equity and transparency reign, if given the opportunity to get the PDP ticket and wins the presidential election. He said that insecurity and other challenges would be addressed to ensure that lives and property of every Nigerian were secured. The Sokoto State Governor said that his experience qualified him to lead the country to prosperity. He implored the party delegates to give him their votes, promising not to let them down. However, a former Governor of Ekiti, Mr Ayo Fayose, who is also a PDP presidential aspirant, attended the meeting, saying that South-West PDP delegates would go to the national convention with one voice. In his remarks, Makinde assured Wike of his support, noting that PDP would have a successful national convention. Commenting, Ogungbenro, who spoke on behalf of the state delegates, described Tambuwal as a competent leader, capable to lead the country. (NAN)