 Blessing Ibunge in  Port Harcourt Former Special Assistant to Mr. Dan Abia, erstwhile Managing Director of Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), Goerge Turnah Alabh, has been convicted and sentenced to four years imprisonment. Justice A.T. Mohammed of the Federal High Court sitting in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, convicted Alabh over failure to make full disclosure of his assets in his disclosure to the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). Alabh, who was prosecuted by the Port Harcourt’s Zonal Command of EFCC between 2017 and 2022 for obtaining money by false pretence, money laundering and abuse of office, was arraigned together with his wife, Jennifer Tinipre Turnah,  on four-count amended charges. Part of the charges read: “That you George Turnah Alabh on or about 15th March, 2017 at the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, South/South Zonal Office, No, 6A Olumeni Street, Old GRA Off Forces Avenue, Port Harcourt within the jurisdiction of this Honorable Court knowingly failed to make full disclosure of your assets to wit: your interest in one of the Director and majority shareholder of Ashford Consult and Events Nig. Ltd in the Asset Declaration Form you filled at the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission  and thereby committed an offence contrary to Section 27 (1) & (3)(a) of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission Establishment Act 2004 and punishable  under Section 27 (3)(c) of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission Establishment Act 2004.” Count three read, “That you George Turnah Alabh on or about 15th March, 2017 at the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, South/South Zonal Office, No, 6A Olumeni Street, Old GRA Off Forces Avenue, Port Harcourt within the Jurisdiction off this Honorable Court  failed to furnish information of your interest as one of the Directors  and major shareholder of Ashford Consult and Events Nig. Ltd in the Asset Declaration Form you filled at the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission  and thereby committed an offence contrary to Section 27 (1) & (3)(a) of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission Establishment Act 2004 and punishable   under Section 27 (3)(c) of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission Establishment Act 2004.” However, in his judgement yesterday, Justice Mohammed found him (Alabh) guilty on counts 1 and 3 bordering on non-disclosure of assets but discharged Jennifer on counts 2 and 4 on the grounds that the amended charge was not served on her properly in line with the law. Alabh was sentenced to two years each on the two counts for failure to make full disclosure of assets contrary to Section 27 (1) & (3)(a) of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission Establishment Act 2004 and punishable under Section 273)(c) of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission Establishment Act 2004. Recall that Alabh and his wife, Jennifer, were first arraigned on May 16, 2018 and re-arraigned on June 18, 2019 by the EFCC on four count charges bordering on failure to make full disclosure of assets which they pleaded not guilty. The prosecution counsel, I. Agwu had called several witnesses and presented several documents in court. Justice Mohammed in his judgement said that the prosecution established that the convict did not fully disclose his assets in the Asset Declaration form he filled at the EFCC. Against his declaration, the court found out that he was one of the Directors and majority shareholder of Ashford Consult and Events Nig. Ltd.