 Hammed Shittu in Ilorin Kwara State Police command at the weekend paraded one of the sons of a retired Major in the Nigeria Army for allegedly being a member of cultists group called “Eiye Confraternity” that has been terrorising the residents of Ilorin, the state capital in the recent times. The suspect, according to the police command, claimed to have killed a student of University of Ilorin, who was allegedly contesting with him to be a number one cultist leader in Ilorin zone and  killed another barber at his shop at Agbooba area of Ilorin. Parading the suspect in Ilorin, the command’s Public Relations Officer, Mr. Ajayi Okasanmi told journalists that the suspect was arrested  by eagle- eyed policemen on surveillance patrol. Okasanmi stated that, “the suspected cultist  was arrested for belonging to a gang of thieves and further investigation into his activities revealed he is a member of a secret cult. He explained: “The suspect confessed that he belongs to Eiye confraternity, and he is number two in Ilorin zone. During one of the cult’s escapades, himself and the other suspects, names withheld (for now) at large, armed with one English Pistol and a locally fabricated pistol went and attacked and killed one Ismaila Alabi AKA Abbey, a barber at his barbing  shop in Agbooba  area of Ilorin on 21/4/2022”. Okasanmi opined further that, “The suspect further confessed that sometime in February 2021 he had also shot and killed one Emmanuel ‘M’ surname  unknown, a student of Human Kinetic Education, University of Ilorin, in a bid  to fast tracking his ascension to the top position in his cult group. “Upon enquiry as to the source of his weapons, he confirmed that he took possession of his late father’s pistol, (a retired army major), which he used in the killings he participated. “The pistol, according to him, is with a member of the Eiye cult group presently at large. Investigation into the matter is ongoing for possible arrest and prosecution of the suspects.” He said that the affected cultists arrested have been charged to court for various criminal offences and are presently reminded  in Correctional centers. He therefore,   re-assured the good  citizens and residents of the State of  the command  unshaken determination to ensure the  state continues to enjoy her  status of being one of the safest and most peaceful states in Nigeria,  advised law abiding citizens to go about their normal lawful businesses without any fear of attack or intimidation.