 An avatar is set to happen in Ideato North and South federal constituency of Imo State. Dr. Chika Abazu is an agent of redemption and has sprang forth from his comfort zone in the civil service to fill a yawning void in political representation of the constituency. Round the clock care for patients is consistent with medical practice and as a medical doctor of many years standing, Dr. Abazu is emphatic that his mission in politics and desire to represent the Ideato nation is borne out of the urgent need to pull the federal constituency from the doldrums, to heal it of its myriad of ills. World all over, medical doctors in politics, bringing to bear on governance and leadership, elements of the Hippocratic Oath they swore to, are known to have performed creditably well in office. History is indeed replete with an array of medical doctors who have been politicians and political leaders and offered quality leadership the same way they would give quality care to their patients. Some of the famous ones are the Latin American Revolutionary Leader, Che Guevara, Hastings Kamuzu Banda of Malawi, Agostinho Neto of Angola, Salvador Allende of Chile, Francois Duvalier (Papa Doc) of Haiti, Gor Harlem Brundtland, First Norwegian Female PM, Houphouet Boigny of Ivory Coast, Nain Ramgoolan of Mauritius, as well as Mahathir Bin Mohammed of Malaysia. Here in Nigeria, medical doctors who became state governors or occupied other political office in the recent past and showed their mettle include Prof. Ambrose Alli, Peter Odili, Bukola Saraki, Chimaoroke Nnamani, Chris Ngige, Emmanuel Uduaghan, who was also succeeded by another medical doctor, Ifeanyi Okowa; and Olusegun Mimiko. Also remarkable are former Secretaries to State Governments, senators and members of the House of Representatives such as Bisi Odejide, Dalhatu Tafida, Jubril Aminu, Martins Yellowe, Olorunnimbe Mamora, Aminu Safana, Wale Okediran, among others. There is no doubt that as the representative of Ideato people come next year, Dr Abazu will be following on the footsteps of these medical legends turned political icons. Sons and daughters of the the Ideato ancient kingdom who rue and grieve over almost eight years of vapid representation at the House of Representatives in Abuja can now heave a sigh of relief for Dr. Abazu who is coming to right that which has been messed up. Dr. Abazu, is clearly the most prepared and focused among the aspirants angling for the Ideato North and South federal constituency seat. A Public Health Physician of over 22 years experience in civil service; Dr. Abazu has risen to the position of a Director at the Federal Civil Service and has served at various levels with merit and distinction. Micheal Nnaji, Osina, Ideato North, Imo State