 Dike Onwuamaeze Stanbic IBTC Bank Plc, a subsidiary of Stanbic IBTC Holdings Plc, has earmarked the sum of N156 million as loyality reward to its existing customers and those that would open accounts while the “Reward4Saving Promo Season 2” lasts. The bank said that its Season 2 promo has three categories of rewards for the lucky winners, which are N100,000, N1 million and N2 million. The first draw of this season, which took place this week at the Stanbic IBTC Head office on Walter Carrington Crescent, Victoria Island, Lagos State, saw 70 customers win cash prizes of N100,000 each. The bank’s aim is to maintain this throughout the 12-month promo time by which a total of 840 customers would have been rewarded with N100,000 during the monthly draws. The bank said that it would reward 28 customers with N1 million each in the quarterly draws, and seven customers with N2 million each in the grand finale draw. Speaking at the May 2022 draws, the Chief Finance Officer (CFO) of Stanbic IBTC Holdings, Mr. Kunle Adedeji, said the bank recognised saving as an important aspect of its customers’ journey to financial freedom, and it is for this reason that Stanbic IBTC has decided to commence the second season of the Reward4Saving Promo to reward and inspire more customers to reach for their dream of financial freedom by improving their savings culture. Adedeji said: “Our aim is to promote a savings culture by rewarding our existing and potential customers as they save for the future. As an end to end financial solutions provider, Stanbic IBTC is committed to creating channels and means of financial empowerment for its millions of customers while rewarding them for their dedication. Simply put, we put our money where our mouth is. “Reward4Saving 2.0, as we like to call it, is themed “Bigger and Better”. This is because we have increased the expected wins to allow more customers from across the geo-political zones of the country walk away with cash prizes worth a total of N156 million, with individual wins ranging from N100,000 to N1 million and N2 million.” The CFOfurther stated that existing and prospective customers could take advantage of this opportunity by saving a minimum of N10,000 in their savings account or @ease wallet, for at least 30 days. He said that one electronic raffle ticket is issued for every N10,000 saved, thereby increasing the chances of winning, moreover new customers would also be rewarded with N500 worth of airtime and three months of free interbank transactions when they open a Stanbic IBTC Bank account.