 Victor Ogunje in Ado Ekiti The Governorship Candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in the oncoming June 18 election in Ekiti State, Hon Bisi Kolawole, unveiled his six-point agenda on Saturday and restated that he would not be a surrogate to former Governor Ayodele Fayose if elected governor. Kolawole disclosed that standing on the shoulders of a “political giant” like Fayose would be a plus to his administration in terms of guidance, advice and contributions to governance based on the former governor’s experiences as a two term state’s chief executive. The PDP candidate said this in Ado Ekiti while unveiling his manifesto that would serve as the compass and policy thrust of his administration if he emerged victorious in the poll. The former commissioner revealed that his six-cardinal agenda is anchored chiefly on participatory governance, security of lives and property, and agricultural development and food security. Other areas captured in his manifesto included infrastructural development, provision of social services and sustainable environment. Kolawole said: Having Governor Fayose as a leader will help in guiding me. He has the experience that he can use to lead me aright. So, I have no regret for having him as my leader or following him. I am even proud about that.” He said that his government would tackle the recurring cases of kidnapping, ICT fraud and farmers-herders’ clashes to protect the citizens and boost agriculture for sustainable development and attaining of food security in Ekiti. He said: “When people are protected, investors will be ready to set up cottage industries in Ekiti. And when Fulani invaders are checked, the farmers will be willing to go to farm for production and when youths are engaged, they won’t engage in ‘yahoo-yahoo’ and other nefarious acts. This is what we will do.” The PDP candidate said that he would devise means to defray the N37.8 billion pension and gratuity arrears allegedly owed by the state government by carrying the retirees along in governance and prioritising their welfare. As encapsulated in his policy thrust, Kolawole said he would make a law to legalise the “stomach infrastructure” concept that was invented by Fayose so that low earning workers, poor citizens, unemployed youths, petty traders and pensioners could be enlisted as automatic beneficiaries. He said: “Our government shall ensure the provision of high quality education at all levels. Our plans in this regard include providing conducive learning environment, developing skills, values and attitudes and applying innovative ideas for the overall good of Ekiti people. “Under the foregoing concept, appropriate emphasis will be placed on digital, technical and vocational education to attend to our unemployed youth. You can’t wean them easily of their involvement in illegal yahoo business when they are not engaged but we will find jobs for them. “We will create wealth by giving micro credit to traders and youth, and most importantly we will encourage setting up of cottage industries by giving tax holidays and ensure that Ekiti is secured. “We will rally our local security to work with conventional security apparatuses like police, DSS, and NSCDC like we did under ex-Governor Fayose for investors to come to our dear state. “We will introduce land use control system to fight illegal land grabbers and for the management of land disputes. We will overhaul the health system for quality healthcare delivery, our environment shall also be protected through effective forest policy, and sanitation for cleanliness and improved health status of our citizens.”