Society Watch Unarguably, Fifi Ejindu is living up to the description of her name, Offiong, which means Full Moon. In her six decades of existence, the quintessential woman illuminates during a time of heightened emotions and adds brilliant colours to the lives of many in need. First, as a wife, her husband cannot wish for a better lover, soul mate and ‘gist’ mate. As a mother, the sophisticated and elegant woman is sweet and wonderful, like her middle name, Ekanem, which means ‘Sweet Mother’. This is seen in the way she raised her children. But her biological children are not only the beneficiaries of her motherly care. Anyone who has crossed paths with her will easily testify to her tenderness. Even in her business, her profile is continually on the rise. Her competitors easily agree that she is blessed with the proverbial Midas touch! Indeed, it is no exaggeration to say that the princess’ life epitomises a tenacity of purpose. Her ability as a strategist and winner has never been in doubt. Every move she makes, either in her business or private life, has never escaped the attention of newshounds; she is a delight to professional journalists and biographers. A well-loved woman by members of her immediate environment, Ejindu is acknowledged as one of the few successful individuals who see the need to give back to society as a priority. The light-skinned princess is one of the few women whose beauty would make any full-blooded man drool. She is not an attention-seeker, but if you meet her at a social event, you will pause to appreciate her God-given endowments. Were there a beauty competition for people her age, this drop-dead beauty will certainly come tops. So many features, including her curvature, come-hither-look and shape, will qualify her for the diadem. Such is the power of her beauty, even as she clocks 60. At her age, Ejindu still boasts glowing skin. It was all these rare qualities, in addition to her commanding dress sense, that usually make her the cynosure of eyes at any public event. So, whenever her birthday is approaching,  her family, friends and others who have benefitted from her large-heartedness and benevolence always see the day as another golden opportunity to celebrate her. The eulogies, no doubt, usually come in torrents. Society Watch gathered that they often do this out of deep respect for the woman with the uncommon milk of kindness.Surprisingly, however, as she clocks 60 on Saturday, May 21, 2022,  the woman does not seem to see the day as significantly different from the others. She is grateful to the Creator for the gift of life. The philanthropist’s passion for empowering the African youth is demonstrated through the NGO she founded known as the “African Arts and Fashion Initiative”, with the mission to ignite the modern African generation in arts and fashion by driving youths into various fields of their desire through fundraisers, scholarships.