 Raheem Akingbolu Brand owners and advertisers have been assured of new opportunities in the just premiered ‘We Baby Bears, a spin-off of Cartoon Network Studios’ all-time favorite animated series, We Bare Bears. The enchanted journey follows three bear siblings, Grizz, Panda, and Ice Bear – as their younger baby selves – traveling up, up, and far away in a magical box to fantastic new worlds in search of a place to call home. Along the way, they meet new friends, learn a few lessons, and discover that ‘home’ can be wherever they are, as long as they’re together. From Grizz, the leader and life of the party, to Panda, whose heart is as big as his love for his phone, and Ice Bear, the mega-talented and youngest of the bunch: each of our bear bros has a funny and bold personality, and they are always there for each other when things get… a little crazy. President of ACEN, Fatai Ajibade Oke FNSE, said the conference, with the theme, Infrastructure Development in Africa, would provide participants an opportunity to discuss the pertinent issues that pertain to engineering consulting and infrastructure development. “The Annual FIDIC Africa Conference is one of the biggest networking events for African consulting engineers. It provides a forum for consulting engineers, legal practitioners, Ministry & Government Bodies, Academia/Education Providers, Financial Institutions, Construction Services, Infrastructure Industry, and other stakeholders in the built environment from the public and private sectors to share ideas on best practices.” “In line with ACEN vision, which is to remain the ultimate reference business association of choice for organisations providing professional engineering consultancy services in Nigeria, the conference will also provide the participants an opportunity to learn from one another the most effective ways of dealing with diverse challenges, in order to achieve value for money and improve the quality of life for the people”, Oke continued. Past President of ACEN and the Chairman of the Local Organising Committee (LOC), Charles ‘Yele Akindayomi, said the three-day conference would offer companies actively involved in all areas pertaining to providing solutions in infrastructure development around the African continent and beyond the opportunity to exhibit their products and services to prospective customers who will be attending the conference.