 Ibrahim Oyewale in Lokoja The Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corp (NSCDC) operatives have arrested a staff of the Abuja Electricity Distribution Company (AEDC), Bamidele Rasaq, for his  alleged involvement in the vandalisation of AEDC aluminum cables. Rasaq, 45, was arrested alongside his accomplice, Isiaka John, 40, at Iyara in Ijumu Local Government Area of Kogi State. It was learnt that the second suspects, Isiaka John, was formerly a casual staff of AEDC before he was disengaged. While parading the suspects yesterday, the state Commandant, Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corp (NSCDC), Suleiman Mafara, said the suspects have been in the dirty business for several years before luck ran out of them. Mafara explained that upon interrogation, the first suspect (Rasaq) admitted to have vandalised the cables on five different occasions before he was arrested. The commandant said: “When my officers got an intelligence report about the nefarious activities of this AEDC staff and his friend, we immediately laid an ambush on him when he made an attempt to vandalise another AEDC cables. On May 16, 2022, at about 07:00hours, Rasaq came to vandalise the AEDC cables, and luck ran out of him before he was arrested. Two month ago, the same Rasaq invited the other suspect (Isiaka John) to help him vandalise the cables.” He noted that the management of AEDC had since been communicated about the criminal activities of one of their staff  which led to the termination of the suspect appointment with the organisation. “During our investigation, the management of AEDC identified Bamidele Rasaq as one of their staff. Interestingly, upon this confirmation, the suspect was served instant dismissal letter,” he added. He added that the Command would soon conclude its investigation and prosecute the suspects in the court of law, stressing that this will serve as deterrent to any individual that intends to engage in criminal activities in Kogi State. While appealing to the public to monitor the facilities installed in their various areas, and report any suspicious character in their environment, Mafara warned all criminal elements to relocate from the state. The two suspects, while fielding questions from journalists, admitted committing the crime. Items recovered from the suspects included electrical cables, pliers and a motorcycle.