HighLife  For the average Nigerian person, a wedding is a thing of two to three hours, laden with worries about who will come and who won’t, which caterer is owed some money and which might burden the ‘wedding rice’ with an extra bag of salt. For those of the wealthy class, it is a day of sublime rapture, expressed affection and several other things that generally come with satisfaction. These are the expressions one could see on the faces of the wedding guests at the prestigious Landmark Event Center, Lagos, where Tayo Ayeni gave out his daughter’s hand in marriage. We can claim to have known and attended classy weddings, but the one that the Skymit boss threw for his daughter, Mathilda Ayeni, is out of this world. Not only were the settings fine and the guests finer, but there is no comparing the joy on the faces of the bride, Mathilda, and her husband, Olamide Akintayo, at having their friends and relatives mingle with the flag bearers of industry in Nigeria. Among the individuals that graced the occasion were the Governor of Ogun State, Prince Dapo Abiodun, who was the Chairman at the event. There was also Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu with whom Abiodun passed the time asides nodding to the music. Governor AbdulRahman Abdulrazaq of Kwara was also present and brought his executive-ness to cheer the event. Several other individuals of national and even international prestige were also available. These include Speaker, House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila; the Ooni of Ife, Oba Enitan Ogunwusi; philanthropist and businessman, Aliko Dangote; BUA founder, AbdulSamad Rabiu, former Ogun Governor, Otunba Gbenga Daniel; Otunba Bimbo and Kemi Ashiru; Farouk Saleh; Francis Ogboro;  Bola Shagaya, Greg Uanseru; Biola Akinola; Tokunbo Wahab; Senator Lanre Tejuosho; Lanre Ogunlesi; Ibukun Awosika; Oye Odukale; Biodun Shobanjo, and many others more. As the event was ongoing, one could tell from Ayeni’s satisfied expression that he was pleased with himself, his family and the bride and her new family, as well as the guests who came from far or near to celebrate with him.