 Ferdinand Ekechukwu Afake Instagram story of Black Sherif warning Davido and his team to stop disturbing him for a remix of his hit song recently appeared online. This has since stirred reactions on social media as the said post went viral. However, Black Sheriff in a tweet via his verified Twitter account confirmed the post as fake, admitting he never denied Davido or his team. The monster hit song, ‘Kwaku the Traveller’ has been trending on Tiktok and all other social media channels. The song was on the lips of virtually everyone. The famous part “Who never fuck-up hands in the air, no hands?” was all over the place. The song was officially released on April 15, 2022 and has since then been on the apex of major music playlists across various digital streaming platforms in the world. ‘Kwaku The Traveller’, which became the number one song in Nigeria  now has a music video. The video directed by Ghana’s David Nicol-Sey has earned him accolades with music lovers giving high ratings for the video quality. The music video captures Sherif’s message on the struggle of the youth. The song is themed on a fascinating story of a young man on a lifetime journey searching for greatness with a well-crafted storyline and amazing melodies. The video has the rapper going through different scenarios social media fans have dubbed, his journey. The ‘Kwaku the Traveller’ clip begins with Black Sherif addressing a session and he’s then seen kneeling in front of some older women in red who seemingly prayed for him. The rapper later dines with some women in the company of bodyguards and his dog. In other scenes, Black Sherif and his friends are chased by the Police and were later arrested. Some on Twitter have been debating the concept portrayed in the video since the release on May 19. Others are arguing whether or not the video’s concept relates to the message in the song. Soon after the impressive music video for Kwaku The Traveller dropped, American rapper Timbaland described the song as a “vibe.” Timbaland shared a snippet of the video on Twitter, writing “this that vibe @blacksherif_ @beatclub”. The single has garnered over one million views on Youtube since its release. Black Sherif’s fast rise to success comes as no surprise to music lovers across the world. His unique sound is geared towards creating a mass cult following, with the end goal of creating a global icon. With the manner in which he blends Ghanaian Highlife with Afro Beats, Drill, Trap and other sounds, it widens his reach and potential. Recall how Black Sherif made name for himself through his previous hit track, ‘Second Sermon’ including the vocals of Burna Boy on the remixed version. Speaking in an interview on how he linked up with Burna Boy, Black Sherif said Poco Lee, the Nigerian dancer and influencer introduced him to the ‘African Giant’ crooner by playing ‘Second Sermon’ to him. He said a member of Burna Boy’s team later reached out to him after which he connected with the ‘Ye’ singer himself through a video call. The rapper, who has not met Burna physically, said it was after numerous calls that they eventually agreed to work on a remix for ‘Second Sermon’. “I think it was Poco Lee who played the song for Burna Boy. Poco is a fan but he’s a friend now,” he said. Black Sherif, whose real name is Mohammed Frimpong, started out as a dancer at Kumasi Academy where he had his secondary education. Previously known as Blacko, the rapper later switched from dancing to music. At 17, he started looking for ways to break into the limelight in the Ghanaian music industry. This also prompted him to audition for talent shows such as Mentor X and MTN Hitmaker. Although he never made it past the audition stages at every attempt, he did not give up. Amid his struggles, Sherif came through with ‘Cry For Me’, his first-ever single. In 2020, he released ‘Money’, the hit single that catapulted him to stardom. With the track, he started to gain attention in Ghana while his style of music also garnered positive reviews. By 2021, Sherif became very popular in his home country with ‘First Sermon’ and ‘Second Sermon’ respectively.