  A three-storey building located at 4, Alayaki Lane, Lagos Island, yesterday collapsed in Lagos during heavy rainfall, killing at least three persons. This was revealed in a statement by the Director General of Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA), Dr Olufemi Oke-Osanyintolu. The statement revealed that an unconfirmed number of people were still trapped under the rubble. “The Agency responded to the above incident which was already in violation of building safety protocols,” a statement revealed. “It was discovered that the building had been captured by the LASBCA District Office and served with all Statutory Notices, Sealed at District and Central Enforcement Level. “Further investigation determined that the developer had continued clandestine operations mostly at night and at the weekends. “An unconfirmed number of people are still trapped inside the building. Two people have been rescued alive while three was recovered dead. Search and Rescue operations are ongoing. Further updates to follow.” Building collapse is not uncommon in Lagos due to lax regulatory oversight and sharp practices by developers. In November a high-rise block of luxury flats under construction collapsed in the Ikoyi area of the state, killing at least 40 people. In February, a building under construction collapsed in the Yaba area of the state, trapping some workers. Earlier this month, no fewer than 10 persons were confirmed dead after a three-storey building collapsed in the Ebute Metta area of the State. Tambuwal: Buhari Short-changed S’East Sokoto State Governor, Alhaji Aminu Tambuwal yesterday promised that he would run an all-inclusive government if elected. Speaking with members of the party in Imo, Tambuwal said President Muhammadu Buhari short-changed  the South-east by not appointing people from the region into key government positions. The Sokoto governor said the people in the geo-political zone “feel marginalised and excluded from Buhari’s administration.” He said: “Buhari has short-changed the south-east. I was the one who advised Saraki to choose Ike Ekweremadu to become his deputy in 2015. There is a complete case of exclusion of the people of the south-east,” he said. “The heads of the ten most important parastatals are not from the south-east, including the CBN governor. None of the service chiefs is from the south-east. “The president, the vice president, the senate president, the deputy senate president, the speaker of the house of representatives and his deputy are not from the south-east. “Under my watch, that cannot happen. Every part of this country will be carried along,” the Sokoto governor promised. Describing the people in the south-east as being industrial, Tambuwal said they will be appointed into strategic positions if he is elected president. “South-east and Imo state in particular can’t be excluded. The PDP will win back Imo when I become president. Igbo people are industrial. You will find a partner in me,” he said. “We are working together with our brothers in Sokoto. We have restored normalcy now in Sokoto state. I will be a president for all Nigerians.”