*Buratai woos Zulum, Borno delegates for ex-minister *We’re waiting for Buhari’s instruction, says Zulum Gombe State Governor, Alhaji Inuwa Yahaya, weekend, said with the former Minister of Transportation, Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi, as President, Nigeria would be a better place for all. The governor said, having been in public office over the years with impeccable achievements, Amaechi would deploy his wealth of experience to piloting the affairs of the country to greater heights. Speaking at a meeting with delegates at the Government House, Yahaya said, “Going by the trajectory on which your life is built, from Speaker to Governor and to Minister,  and if you get to that level that you are aspiring to get to, that means everything is settled. “You have shown capacity, you’ve shown energy and passion and you have shown the capacity to deliver on any assignment or political mandate that is given to you. Our delegates, knowing how you handled the previous assignments given to you and the capacity that you have proven to have, will give them the cause and confidence to go with you, because we know with you, everything is settled. “Gombe is your second home. You stood to fight and brought in Mr. President, and by so doing you’ve shown commitment, you’ve shown capacity.“Gombe State is ready for you. These array of supporters that you see here are delegates. So, I make bold to say as the leader of this party, that these delegates that you see here are speaking with one voice and they know you have the capacity to deliver.” Similarly, Chairman of the party, Nite Amangal, said there was no doubt the former minister would deliver on good governance if given the opportunity due to his experience in public office.“Your Excellency, Gombe is your second home. The delegates of Gombe will speak with one voice, and we know you have the capacity and experience to be the President of Nigeria. We pray that God will lead you through to be on the seat by 2023,” he said. Amaechi, while addressing the delegates, assured them that if elected President, he would complete the Port Harcourt-Maiduguri rail line, which goes through Gombe.  “Vote for me, so that I can fly the party’s flag and become the President of the country. If you support me, if you vote for me, rest assured that I will deliver. I am not from the North, I am not from the South, I am not from the East, I am not from the West, I am from Nigeria. It simply means that I will represent you, whether you are a Christian or Muslim. “Take the assurance that I understand the pains of poverty, get the assurance that I will bring my wealth of experience to bear. The federal government has approved the contract for the Port Harcourt-Maiduguri railway.“It has been awarded, the contractor is on site. I hope they will continue to pursue the loan the way I was doing before I resigned. If they don’t complete that project, when I become President, rest assured that I will complete it,” Amaechi stated. Meanwhile, a former Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt Gen. Tukur Yusuf Buratai, has urged the the Borno State Governor, Professor Babagana Zulum and delegates from the state to vote for Amaechi to emerge as the party’s standard bearer for the 2023 presidential election.Buratai, who is now Nigeria’s Ambassador to Benin Republic, said Amaechi was one Nigerian that could change things for good in the country, if given the opportunity to serve as President. Speaking at a consultative meeting with Amaechi, Zulum, leaders and delegates of the APC in Maiduguri, Borno, yesterday, Buratai narrated how Amaechi as Governor of Rivers State, succeeded in curbing militancy, kidnapping and others forms of criminality, restoring sanity to the state within few months of assuming office. The former COAS, who was then Brigade Commander of the Nigerian Army in Rivers State, said he saw in Amaechi the resilience and determination to do things right, urging the governor and delegates to give him all their votes and see for themselves the change that would occur when Amaechi gets the ticket and eventually becomes president. “Your Excellency, we will not share any votes. Give hundred per cent of your votes to Rt Hon. Rotimi Amaechi, and I will tell you the reasons why. Here with us is the man of the moment, who is ready to serve, and has shown the determination in his exploits and his experience over the years, as Speaker, as a Governor and as Minister. He has led his peers –governors – twice. He has also led his colleagues in parliament as Chairman, Conference of Speakers twice. “He has that experience and very importantly he has remained loyal to President Muhammadu Buhari. On two occasions, in 2015 and 2019 as campaign Director General, he delivered President Muhammadu Buhari.“You know the history of Borno, we have always gone along with the winning team. Do not follow any other person apart from Amaechi, who is here. We must align ourselves with Amaechi; we must be with the man of the moment,” he said. Zulum, on his part, said, “To me, power belongs to God. It is my prayer that Nigeria should get a good President. My prayer is for Almighty Allah to give us a good candidate that can take this nation to a greater height, a candidate that can deliver dividends of democracy to the good people of Nigeria.” Zulum said Amaechi’s advice to delegates to vote with conscience is very important, adding that, “The people of Borno State will use their conscience to vote for a candidate that deserves to be voted for,” even as he noted that, “President Muhammadu Buhari is also very important in this political equation. We are still waiting for him to say what he wants us to do.”