•Inaugurates screening committees for governorship, house, senate aspirants Adedayo Akinwale in Abuja There was uncertainty over the screening of 25 presidential aspirants contesting on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) scheduled to take place on Saturday May 14 and Sunday 15. As of early Saturday morning, 25 presidential aspirants had beat the submission of forms deadline of the party. The list of the presidential aspirants that submitted their nomination forms includes: Senator Bola  Tinubu, Vice President Yemi Osibanjo, former Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, former Minister of Niger Delta Development, Sen. Godswill Akpabio, former Minister of Science, Technology and Innovation, Dr Ogbonnaya Onu, former Imo State governor, Sen. Rochas Okorocha and former Ogun state governor, Sen. Ibikunle Amosu. Others are: Pastor Tunde Bakare, Cross River State governor, Prof. Ben Ayade, his Ebonyi State counterpart, Gov. Dave Umahi, Ekiti State governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, Minister of State, Education, Hon. Emeka Nwajiuba, former Senate President,  Sen. Ken Nnamani, Kogi State governor,  Yahaya Bello, Jigawa governor Mohammed Badaru Abubakar and former Zamfara State governor, Sen.  Ahmed Yerima. Also on the list are: Senator Ajayi Borroffice, the only female aspirant, Barr. (Mrs) Uju Kennedy Ohnenye,  Pastor Nicholas Felix Nwagbo, former Speaker of Representative, Hon. Dimeji Bankole, Senate President, Dr. Ahmed Lawal, AfBD Managing Director, Akinwumi Adesina, former Minister of State, Petroleum, Chief Timipre Sylva, former Minister of Information, Chief Ikeobasi Mokelu and Mr Tein Jack Rich. While the ruling party on Saturday morning  announced that it would inaugurate the Chairmen and Secretaries of respective Screening Committees for House of Representatives, Senate and Governorship aspirants on Saturday by 12p.m, the party was mum on the presidential screening committee. The National Organizing Secretary of the party, Sulaiman Argungu in a statement issued Saturday said the inauguration of the various committees  would take place at Fraser Suites,  Abuja. “The Chairmen and Secretaries of respective Screening Committees for House of Representatives, Senate and Governorship Aspirants of the All Progressives Congress (APC) will be inaugurated as follows: Date: Saturday, May 14th, 2022; Time: 12 Noon. “The screening exercise will commence thereafter.” Argungu said the screening for the House of Representatives aspirants would take place on Saturday 14th May, 2022 at Zeus Paradise Hotel, Abuja by 2pm, while the screening for Senate and Governorship aspirants would take place on 15th May, 2022 at Fraser Suites, Abuja on Sunday,  by 10am.