 Alex Enumah in Abuja A Real Estate Development company in Abuja has petitioned the Inspector General (IG) of Police over the alleged malicious damage of its property worth over N100 million in Mekong Street, Maitama, Abuja. The firm, Abeh Signature Ltd, owners of Abeh Signature Apartments, is demanding the immediate arrest, investigation and prosecution of a Chief Superintendent of Police (CSP), Sunday Idachaba, Mrs Asabe Waziri, her Lawyer, Henry Otu and the Director of Enforcement of the High Court of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) for allegedly procuring a judgment of an FCT Area Court to return Waziri to the property despite a subsisting court judgment that had ordered her to vacate his property. Chairman of the estate firm, Mr. Cecil Osakwe, in a petition dated May 11, 2022 titled: “Malicious Destruction of Property and Other Items in My Estate Valued at N100m” alleged that one Asabe Waziri, her lawyer, Henry Otu conspired with Chief Supritendent of Police (CSP) Sunday Idachaba, the officer in Charge of the Legal Department of FCT Command, Abuja and Chukwuemeka Tony Ubani, Director , Enforcement, Federal Capital Territory High Court, Abuja, to have procured and enforced a judgment fraudulently obtained from a district court in Abuja. According to Osakwe, “the judgment was obtained fraudulently” and they attempted to use it to forcefully bring in Asabe Waziri into his property which she had vacated sometimes in March, 2022, following the judgment of Justice Othman Musa of an FCT High Court. Osakwe pointed out in the petition that the said judgment from a District Court in Abuja, was purported to give effect to the order of a Court of Appeal, Abuja division, which had ordered that ‘parties should maintain status quo ante bellum.” The petitioner further asserted that in a desperate move to subvert the course of Justice, Waziri, and her lawyer surreptitiously procured the district court order, without serving the parties and went on to enforce same with the consent and facility of CSP Idachaba. He added that Idachaba, Otu and their conspirators in attempting to bring in Waziri’s belongings, employed thugs armed with weapons who entered into his premises and visibly destroyed properties including elevators, doors, windows, televisions, chairs etc. “This is while there is a substantive suit filed by the same Asabe Waziri which is still pending before High court of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) in Abuja,” he explained. The Chairman in the petition is therefore, requesting the IG to investigate and prosecute Waziri, her lawyer, Otu , CSP Idachaba O.C. Legal FCT Police Command and Ubani for malicious damage to property and criminal trespass. He explained that Waziri was a previous leaseholder whose transaction with the firm was terminated by a court judgment delivered by Justice Musa Othman of the FCT High Court on February 15, 2022 and the judgment was enforced on March 18, 2022 wherein she was vacated from the premises.