 As the Festival of Black Arts and Culture (FESTAC) returns 45 years after, the CEO of Kahera Travels, Kechi Richard-Sheidu, has expressed optimism that the event would usher in a new era for African arts and culture. Kehera Travels, one of Tanzania’s travel and tourism partners, made this remark in a media release issued to newsmen in Lagos. The historic festival was  held in Lagos, Nigeria from January 15 to February 12th, 1977. It undoubtedly attracted local and international music stars, celebrity artistes, and cultural dance troups from all over the world, who serenaded participants with their energetic vibes. Speaking about the upcoming festival, the CEO described FESTAC as a once-in-a-generation event. She also invited all art and culture lovers to participate in this year’s jamboree. Richard-Sheidu enthused: “The majority of us were either too young or had not yet been born the last time this event was held. I am overjoyed that the arts and culture festival is returning to our time. The festival, she noted, promises to be completely immersive, and the stories will be passed down for generations to come. For Kehera Travels boss, she implored prospective participants to take advantage of the seamless service Kahera Travels provides to its clients in Lagos and London. “A true African tropical paradise awaits you on this adventure-filled, culturally immersive experience; meet the best of Zanzibar. “Explore the charm of Stone Town and the miles of white sandy beaches of Zanzibar and Pemba. Simply put, there is no better place to be from May 23 to May 29 this year than Kahera Travels. We are here to make your journey and stay memorable.” Indeed, FESTAC was a festive celebration of culture with art and fashion installations, live painting, the best of African cuisine, and live performances by African artistes. There were art exhibitions, colourful parades, and gymnastic dance from Nigerian and international dancers. The carnival was such an undeniably mind-blowing experience that it inspired the name of a town in Lagos, Nigeria. Today, FESTAC Africa is back after a 45-year hiatus, and this time it promises to be even more thrilling than previous editions. The Festival will attract Africans and other nationalities, creating a perfect opportunity for networking and collaborations. It will also draw a cross global community to the scenic Island of Zanzibar to experience an eclectic Pan-African and International line-up of music, theatre, poetry, film, dance, and visual arts; a vibrant handcraft market, family-friendly performances and Kids Zone, as well as an interactive art and dialogue space, creating a truly diverse and magical seven-day entertainment experience.