 Famed for composing the very popular signature tune, ‘Wa-zo-bia’, 83-year-old ex-diplomat Pa Akinlolu Fafowora has helped to create several other classics recorded by the late highlife legend, Roy Chicago. He recently launched a story-telling style music album in Lagos, which repositions him as one of the last men standing of his generation. He speaks with Adedayo Adejobi on life as an ex-diplomat, the struggles and the joy of helping others. Dateline was a sunny Monday afternoon at his Amuwo Odofin estate residence,  where we had a chance meeting. Even at 83, he looked clean-shaven, suave and decked in crisp sparkling patterned white long-sleeved shirt and trousers with a matching cap. His eyes hid behind a signature frame. For a retired octogenarian, Pa Akinlolu Fafowora still makes a statement with his taste in fashion, having had to stay in good shape and health in order to entertain Nigerians. At first, one would notice that he exudes a calm spirit, humility and a great sense of warmth showing courtesy to visitors and domestic staff. Born in April 1939 in Ilesa, Osun State as the 16th of 25 children by five women, he is the only boy amongst his five siblings from his mother. Childhood was interesting until he lost his father, the breadwinner at a tender age. He was just in primary school. His uncle, the late Chief Sylvester Fafowora sponsored his education between 1955 and 1956. From 1957 to 1958, his two elder sibling sisters took over, after which he took a loan from an in-law to go to boarding school. He paid the same from 1962 to 1965. After school fees increased between 1966 and 1968, the self-driven composer resorted to studying privately for the Advanced Level of the G.C.E and passed with flying colours. Another stumbling block reared its ugly head in 1969 and 1970 when Fafowora gained admissions to different universities but couldn’t go for lack of funds. Undeterred by lack of funds, and like a Phoenix, he went back to civil service in May 1973 at the Ministry of Defence to work to raise the funds needed in furthering his education. Again, in 1975, he went back to another tertiary college – Polytechnic College, Ibadan to pursue Ordinary and Higher National Diplomas in Accounting combined programme for three years 1975 to 1978 and went for his Youth Service in 1979. After a brief stint at the Ministry of Defence in 1979, in a dramatic twist, he joined the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in September 1979, upon hearing of the federal government’s recruitment of  Account Officers instead of relying on temporary transfers from the Ministry of Finance. His love for music was evinced from childhood. Although music wasn’t offered as a subject in school, it was innate for Fafowora who found ways to express himself at church services where he sang, played the drums, and got to listen to evergreen musicians at his Uncle’s popular record shops’ in Ilesha. With a particular penchant for highlife music from Ghana, he listened to many records almost daily after returning from school. The immersion in evergreen music from music greats inspired his foray into highlife music. Even though his parents knew he was born for music, he was discouraged. Yet unfettered, he narrated, ‘‘Those days, when I showed signs of a love for music, my mother used to tell me these things. But she never wanted me to exhibit those talents. My father also went against it. But I just continued until my father died on October 19, 1953, and my mother in 1961, two years after I had left school.’’ 43 years ago, Fafowora met his wife. Recalling their first encounter was effortless as he displayed good retention of memories. “One day,” he began. “Chief Mrs. Abosede Fafowora informed me that Dapo, my in-law, was worried about my not getting married, as I could be posted out to serve in the Embassy of Nigeria sooner than expected. She shared this view with her husband that I should get married as soon as possible because of posting. Luckily, I had broken up my former relationship with a lady. Wonderfully, she paved the way and I married the lady she recommended to me. That was 43 years ago and we are today, happy parents of a chartered accountant, a lawyer and a medical officer working in the U.K,” he enthused. Reminiscing on many of God’s wonders and people’s contributions to his life, he said: ‘‘My house was planned for me by a very close friend Chief Kunle Oluwasanmu, a lawyer and former customs officer and also a former Federal Minister of Mines and Power. I should also contribute to people’s lives and assist in all ways to solve others’ problems. I assisted many people at all times, while still at work and particularly while abroad. I did my best even at great sacrifices and pains to me and my family. Really, I assisted mainly Nigerians like me,” he disclosed with nostalgia. Giving an account of his stewardship, 1983 whilst he was the Accountant in the Embassy of Nigeria, Ndjamena, Chad, “Our Defense Adviser came and because of the war, he couldn’t be booked into any hotel. I readily accommodated him and five members of his staff in my official quarters for the Estacode period, before we got his official quarters for them.’’ With a great level of openness not seen nor exhibited by civil servants, Fafowora nudges the reporter to cross-reference his statements from elder statesmen and revered gentlemen like Dr. Adolphus Wabara, former Senate President of Nigeria, who was the Head of Chancery in the Nigeria Embassy, Ndjamena, Chad. Even though he is retired, he isn’t showing signs of tiredness. His recent release of a four-track album titled ‘Reminisce’ gives credence to his quest to leave his mark on the sands of time through music — his first love and passion. The new album release was graced by great artists like Yinka Davies, Taiwo Ajai-Lycett, Dede Mabiaku, Wale Thompson and Lake Friday among many others; while the album featured scintillating popular tracks like ‘Wazobia,’ ‘Fiwajomi,’ ‘Iba fun Obi’ and ‘Jesu’, improvised by veteran music producer, Sola Ogunsola and performed by a 22-piece live band. When Fafowora isn’t reading history books and daily newspapers, he is poring over religious books and discussing with his close friends, conservative views on why Nigeria needs proper evolution- one to be agreed upon by the masses. In the hour spent with him before and almost immediately after the interview started, three people waltzed in to pay their appreciation to the Ilesha born songwriter for favours rendered, while his phone rang intermittently with calls to cement his varying acts of philanthropy. When asked why the sobriquet ‘Baba Rere’ meaning good man, is copiously used on him; and how many times he receives calls in a day, Fafowora replied with a smile. “I had no reason to count the calls I receive in a day. On the appellation, perhaps it is a reflection of how people see my roles or activities at work, at home, in the area of residence or social places. Long ago, I adopted the policy of making myself available in finding solutions around, no matter who is in trouble. I believe that whatever you give to nature or life, you get the reward back from God in multitudes, good or bad. It is true.” Even one of his three daughters thinks he has a compelling superior complex in him which always makes him assume that he should or must be involved in finding solutions to other people’s problems. A defining philosophy for the musician is captured in his words, “In my entire life God has used many people in solving my problems. Such people came from all over the place, from the families on both sides, men and women at great sacrifices.”