 Seriki Adinoyi Plateau State Governor, Simon Lalong has charged the Nigerian Mining and Geosciences Society (NMGS) to do more in terms of developing the mineral resources in the country, especially petroleum, coal, tin, among others, with a view to growing the economy of the nation, and to better the fortune of the sector. The charge was given during the investiture ceremony of Dr. Raymond Daspan and his executive members held at the NMGS secretariat in Jos, Plateau State. Represented by the state Commissioner of Mineral Development, Mr. Jude Dakur, the Governor emphasized on the great potential of solid minerals in the state and other states, urging NMGS to harness it to improve Nigeria economy for overall benefit of the country. Congratulating the new EXCO, the Governor urged them to do only what will raise the image of NMGS and revive the glory days of the society. Welcoming the guests at the event, the NMGS President, Mr. Charles Alabo agreed that Plateau State has been in the lead in mining activities, hence his love and passion for the state. Encouraging the miners in the state not to relent in showcasing the fortune of the mining industry, Alabo specifically urged them to develop more skills and technology to keep the banner flying high, adding that he was sure that the society is in capable hands. In his keynote, the Guest Lecturer, and Consultant Geologist/Hydrogeologist, Dr. Matthew Offodili, said it was observed at Ife symposium that members of the society “have no doubt contributed immensely to the development of the mineral resources in the country, especially petroleum, coal and tin. Its members hold key positions in government, corporations, industry and in the private sector as well. Indeed the achievement of individual members in these various sections is commendable. “The Society as an entity has, however, made very little or no impact on the economic development of the country. It enjoys no recognition from government as a professional body; its views are not sought, on subjects of national interest on which it should be the final authority in the country.” In a goodwill message, the immediate past President of NMGS, Professor Edatafano Ahsano encouraged the new EXCO, urging them to note that their new position is a call to humanity and sacrificial service and not an opportunity for personal gains or power display. He said the NMGS Jos chapter remains the doyen of the national body, an enviable status that must be maintained. He also stressed the need for the team to restore the annual conference of NMGS that used to be hosted in Jos but was interrupted by insecurity in the state. Newly Poor Africans Increased by 55m Says Ghanaian Minister Gilbert Ekugbe Ghanaian Finance Minister Ken Ofori-Atta, has stated that the number of newly poor Africans have increased by 55 million. In 2021, the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) estimated that over 490 million people in Africa lived under poverty line of $1.90 per day, which was 37 million people more than what was projected without the COVID-19 pandemic. With this increase, the number of poor people on the continent has risen to 545 million. “The newly poor in Africa have increased by 55 million and approximately 35 million formal jobs are at risk,” the minister said. “This toxic mix of challenges exist even as we try to recover from the Covid-19 pandemic,” he stressed. He emphasised Ghana’s partnership with the African Development Bank (AfDB) in its development as he addressed journalists at a press conference to publicise the institution’s upcoming annual meetings. Ofori-Atta described the meetings as seminal, in the context of a world seeking to rebalance in the wake of COVID-19 and the war in Ukraine. “The hosting is long overdue. Forty-one African economies are severely exposed to at least three concurrent crises – rising food prices, rising energy prices and tightening financial conditions – what finance ministers now call the dreaded three f’s,” Ofori-Atta said. Throughout Africa food prices are currently around 34 per cent higher, crude oil prices 60 per cent and global inflation is affecting all countries, the minister said, with inflation in Ghana standing at around 23.6 per cent. “In the African Development Bank, we have a well-positioned institution with the convening power and a network of technical and financial resources to significantly contribute toward finding robust solutions to some of these intractable problems that we are experiencing,” Ofori-Atta said. During the annual meetings, scheduled from May 23 to 27 in the Ghanaian capital Accra, there would be a showcase of products and services of 13 indigenous industrialists and five fintechs on the sidelines. He also touched on the replenishment of the African Development Fund (ADF), the African Development Bank Group’s concessional lending arm. This year marks the fiftieth anniversary of the fund. “One of the key issues is how to push our non-regionals to accept ADF going to the capital markets to leverage the $25 billion equity so we can get more resources,” Ofori-Atta said. He said the ADF would benefit from cheaper interest rates, should it turn to the capital markets. Donors and multilateral institutions cannot meet Africa’s developmental demands.