 Blessing Ibunge in Port Harcourt Representative of Degema/Bonny Federal Constituency at the National Assembly, Hon. Farah Dagogo, has been remanded in the Port Harcourt Maximum Security Correctional Centre by a Rivers State High Court sitting in Port Harcourt. Despite bail granted him by a Federal High Court in Port Harcourt on Thursday, Dagogo who looked visibly sick was yesterday lifted by hand into the court by four police officers to stand trial. THISDAY observed that journalists were threatened and denied access to cover the proceedings inside the court. Following Dagogo counsel’s absence in court as at the time he was brought in by the security operatives, the trial Judge, Justice Chinwendu Nwogu, adjourned the matter till Monday, May 16, 2022 and ordered that he be remanded in the correctional centre. Earlier, counsel for Farah Dagogo Innocent Ekwu, had threatened to issue a contempt of court on the police. He faulted the police for not granting the orders of a federal High Court to release Farah Dagogo, describing them as enemies of democracy. “This is tyranny, this is an abuse of the law, this is arrogating to themselves authority that does not lie within them. We are calling on all relevant authorities in this country, especially the Inspector General of Police to prevail on the Commissioner of Police in the state to release him immediately. “It is our decision that if by 2p.m. today not produce him before the federal High Court and release him we shall file a contempt proceeding against the Commissioner of Police and all the persons named, we shall ask the court to commit them to prison so that they will go and test the very prison and they will meet themselves in the prison,” he said. However, Dagogo who is a governorship aspirant on the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) platform in the state has accused the State Governor, Nyesom Wike and the Commissioner of Police of dragging him to Court despite his very bad health condition. Dagogo, in a statement issued in Port Harcourt by his media aide, Ibrahim Lawal, said the State High Court where he was arraigned was different from the earlier State High Court that had adjourned the matter till May 16, 2022. The statement reads: “On Friday, May 13, the Rivers State Government under the orders of Governor Nyesom Wike caused his willing ally and tool, the State Police Commissioner, Friday Eboka, for Hon. Doctor Farah Dagogo to be presented in court despite his very deteriorating health conditions. Chief of Staff to the Governor, Emeka Woke led police officials from Government House to the Court. “In fact, the police forcefully brought Hon. Doctor Farah Dagogo on stretcher, and the Chief of Staff, Emeka Woke, was busy harassing and threatening journalists at the Court from taking videos or pictures of how he was brought in on stretcher. The journalists were further barred from going into the courtroom. “The High Court, where Hon. Doctor Farah Dagogo was arraigned, had adjourned to May 16, 2022 only for Governor Nyesom Wike and CP Friday Eboka to break all known laws in the country by bringing the matter forward before Justice Chiwendu Nwogu, today, May 13th. “Hon. Doctor Farah Dagogo lawyers were not served neither were they aware of the change of date nor reason for change of date and as such were not available to defend him. “This renewed judiciary onslaught by the Rivers State Governor and Police Commissioner, Friday Eboka, was  pre-determined to disobey and make mockery of the Federal High Court Order of May 12, 2022 that granted Hon. Doctor Farah Dagogo bail but which was ignored and disobeyed by Commissioner of Police, Friday Eboka. “All these are orchestrated and well planned plot to gradually kill Hon. Doctor Farah Dagogo in Police custody. If anything untoward happens to Hon. Doctor Farah Dagogo, the Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, the State Commissioner of Police, Friday Eboka,  Camp Commandant to the Governor, Efeturi Irikefe, Chief of Staff to the Governor, Emeka Woke and others should be held responsible. “This information is for the world to be aware of the impunity, disregard for the court of law, executive rascality and other known norms alien to a sane society under democratic clime, being perpetrated by the Governor of Rivers State, Nyesom Wike, who is a lawyer and Police Commissioner Friday Eboka. “The Judiciary is being raped in Rivers State and the Police have effectively proven to be a political tool of the Rivers State Government. “We await to see the actions and reactions of the Chief Justice of Nigeria, whose temple of Justice is being desecrated and the Inspector General of Police, who was supposed to ensure that the police are responsible for protection of lives and properties.”