 Italian transfer market guru Fabrizio Romano has set the record straight on rumours linking Nigeria international Victor Osimhen with a summer transfer to Premier League club, Arsenal. Romano has insisted that no negotiations have taken place between the parties amid speculation in the media that the striker’s intermediary recently flew to London for contract talks with the Gunners. Osimhen is being linked with a move to the Premier League after an outstanding season at Napoli that saw him score 18 goals from 32 all-competition appearances. Romano admitted that Arsenal are in the market for a striker and Manchester City’s Brazil star Gabriel Jesus remains their number one target. “As of today, I am not aware of an advanced negotiation for Victor Osimhen to Arsenal,” Romano told caughtoffside. “So far there is no proposal on the table, sources close to the club guarantee. “Arsenal are waiting for answers from Gabriel Jesus, who is the priority target, but who also interests other clubs.” Osimhen’s contract expires on June 30, 2025 but Napoli would reportedly entertain offers in excess of 100 million euros. Meanwhile, Osimhen could remain at Napoli this summer amidst interests from Manchester United, Arsenal, and Newcastle because none of his suitors are unwilling to meet the Partenopeans’ €110million valuation of the 23-year-old. Osimhen had a terrific campaign last season, finding the net 18 times and bagging five assists in 32 appearances. His displays have attracted interest from top English sides United, Arsenal, and Newcastle. However, the Partenopeans will not let their star striker go without raising a lot of dust. Napoli secured Osimhen’s services from Lille for €75million two years ago, and with the brilliance and promise the former Charleroi man has shown, Napoli would look to milk out a massive fee from potential suitors, especially with a tough business man like Aurelio De Laurentiis running the club. According to Napoli Magazine, Napoli’s €110million asking price could discourage suitors from signing Osimhen, and the Nigerian star could remain in Naples last season. Nonetheless, a move can still not be ruled out, as the major contenders for Osimhen’s services are all financially buoyant.