 Bennett Oghifo With the next CONEXPO-CON/AGG and International Fluid Power Exposition (IFPE), being less than a year away, construction pros can expect a next-level experience when they arrive at the Las Vegas Convention Center, March 14-18, 2023. The Association of Equipment Manufacturers (AEM) will be at the event. AEM is the North America-based international trade group representing off-road equipment manufacturers and suppliers with more than 1,000 companies and more than 200 product lines in the agriculture and construction-related industry sectors worldwide. The equipment manufacturing industry in the United States supports 2.8 million jobs and contributes roughly $288 billion to the economy every year. A foremost public relations company in Nigeria, Niche PR, one of AEM supporting organisations, said that Nigeria would be represented by Construction Industry experts and buyers looking to further take their businesses to the next level. Mrs Marcella Iyitor, CEO, Niche PR is leading the delegation of contractors, FERMA, Federal Ministry of Works and Housing, Federal Ministry of Power to experience the newest equipment and products. “For business networking and possible partnerships, we are hoping to have more roundtable discussions at the show again.” The most obvious project underway during the last show was the construction of the new West Hall and adjacent Diamond Lot on the site of the old Gold Lot. The other was the Tesla-powered people mover, now called the “LVCC Loop,” underground transport project being built under the LVCC. Now that both projects are complete, CONEXPO-CON/AGG, and the co-located IFPE will make full use of both. “AEM and our show committees of industry leaders are working to take advantage of everything that has changed in Las Vegas to deliver a top-notch event delivering the latest innovations and best practices to help construction pros take their businesses and careers to the next level,” said Dana Wuesthoff, show director of CONEXPO-CON/AGG 2023. “Between the West Hall and Diamond Lot bringing a lot of displays closer to the rest of the show as well as serving as a connector to the Festival Lot, and the LVCC Loop making it effortless to get across the entire Las Vegas Convention Center, it’s never been easier for attendees to see everything they want to learn about when they get there.” According to the Las Vegas Convention Center, the new West Hall provides an additional 1.4 million square feet of indoor space, including 600,000 square feet of “technologically advanced” exhibit space. CONEXPO-CON/AGG is making West Hall a hub for earthmoving and materials handling displays in 2023, the largest of which include Case, K-Tec/Ashland, Hitachi and Hyundai. “When you attend CONEXPO-CON/AGG, you are able to see an item, touch it, sit in it, sometimes operate it and discuss it with the engineers and manufacturers,” said Brian Dietz, of Bob Dietz & Sons, an excavating contractor in New York’s Hudson Valley. “When you walk up to a machine and talk to someone, you get answers that you are not going to get anywhere else. No local equipment dealer that can provide that. The event also helps you stay on top of the latest trending technology.” The Diamond Lot, attached to the west of West Hall, will have a large variety of exhibits from Business Operations to Hauling to Portable Power to Underground Construction. The largest exhibitors in this area include Bauer Equipment, CZM Foundation Equipment, Trail King, and Hammer & Steel. The LVCC Loop, which features new electric Tesla vehicles carrying attendees around the LVCC, is the other major addition to the show. With stops in the South Hall (providing easy access to both floors of South Hall and IFPE exhibits), running to Central Hall (providing access to Central and North Halls) and finishing at Diamond Lot (providing access to West Hall), CONEXPO-CON/AGG and IFPE attendees can save themselves a lot of steps getting around. And with shuttle service carrying construction pros from West Hall to the Festival Lot where the largest exhibits at the show are, seeing the whole show has never been easier. “In the construction business, everything we talk about is benchmarked by the last CONEXPO-CON/AGG we went to,” said Bruce Barnhart, owner of Barnhart’s Custom Services, an excavating contractor in the Eastern Iowa Corridor. “It’s like everything revolves around CONEXPO-CON/AGG. Even our conversations with our employees years after the show connect back to what we saw and learned at the show. Also, the hospitality by the manufacturers is a major highlight. At CONEXPO-CON/AGG you have fun, and you learn.” CONEXPO-CON/AGG is the largest construction trade show in North America and the premier event that connects professionals from every major construction sector. Held every three years, CONEXPO-CON/AGG takes the construction industry to the next level by helping construction professionals elevate their industry expertise, experience the newest equipment and products through demonstrations and industry-leading education, make new professional connections, and grow their own marketability within the industry. The next CONEXPO-CON/AGG will be held March 14-18, 2023 in Las Vegas, Nevada. IFPE, the International Fluid Power Exposition, is the leading North American exhibition bringing together the fluid power, power transmission and motion control industries. The next IFPE, co-located with CONEXPO-CON/AGG, will be held March 14-18, 2023, at the Las Vegas Convention Center.