 D’Tigress have called on the federal government to reverse its decision to withdraw Nigeria from international basketball competitions for two years. Last week, Sunday Dare, minister of sports and youth development, announced the ban, adding that it was part of efforts by the government to revamp the sport from the grassroots. The development came amid the ongoing power tussle within the Nigeria Basketball Federation (NBBF). Reacting to the FG’s resolution on basketball via a Twitter thread yesterday, D’Tigress said they “do not agree with this ban.” The team also said it would take “away all our future competitions, accomplishments and goals to elevate, inspire, and make Nigeria proud!” The African champions added that they have worked hard to be “Afrobasket Champions” and will “passionately love to represent in this upcoming FIBA Women’s World Cup competition.” “We, as the Women’s national team of Nigeria, would like to speak on the government’s recently placed two-year ban on all Nigerian Basketball International competitions,” D’Tigress wrote. “The D’Tigress team would like to state that we do not agree with this ban. This ban is taking away all our future competitions, accomplishments and goals to elevate, inspire, and make Nigeria proud! “We would like to be given the opportunity to play for our country that we passionately love to represent in this upcoming FIBA Women’s World Cup competition. “We have worked very hard to be 3x Afrobasket Champions, Olympians, and now we are blessed with another opportunity to continue that representation for Nigeria. Advertisement “We want Nigerian basketball to continue to grow and succeed on every level, from the local leagues, grassroots and even on the international stage! “We believe that all levels of Nigerian basketball can excel with the proper attention, togetherness, and organization. Our team is a testament to how successful Nigerian basketball can be and how we have been an inspiration to all Nigerian athletes across the globe. “We wish to express our gratitude to all the coaches, medical staff, organizers, and fans. This ban not only penalizes us but you all as well. Your commitment and loyalty to our team will never go unnoticed. “Our goal is to play and represent Nigeria proudly! We, as the Nigerian Women’s National team, plea for the reversal of the International Basketball ban for Nigeria. We hope to be heard! Thank you.”