 Omon-Julius Onabu in Asaba, Adibe Emenyonu in Benin City, Amby Uneze in Owerri and Olusegun Samuel in Yenagoa Former Senate President and presidential aspirant on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Dr Bukola Saraki, has said that Nigeria needs a president who is not only a business-friendly bridge-builder but a man who is truly courageous to do the needful to rescue the country from the precipice. Saraki said that Nigeria was sliding towards the unenviable status of a failed state, and stressed the need to choose a president who will courageously and effectively address the country’s security, economic and social challenges to restore the country to the path of peace, progress and economic prosperity. The former Senate President who was in Delta, Edo, Bayelsa and Imo states yesterday to meet with delegates as part of his consultations, noted that there was no denying that the country needs urgent and bold measures to rescue and fix Africa’s most promising country. “There would be dire consequences if we failed at this auspicious time in the nation’s democratic advancement to choose the right person to lead Nigeria out of the woods of insecurity and to put restore her to the trajectory of progress and prosperity,” he said While promising to be a bridge between the old and young in the country, he urged Nigerians to think of Saraki because widespread suffering and anxiety in the country do not discriminate between ethnic affinity or religious persuasion. In Edo State, Saraki promised that he would restructure Nigeria and make health services free for all Nigerians if elected president in 2023. In Imo State, the PDP presidential aspirants promised to create democratisation of opportunities for Nigerians regardless of their ethnic background. According to him, “I am a Nigerian for all Nigerians. In the absence of a candidate from the Southeast, then I stand fit to represent the Igbo because I feel your concern and have been part of you. “I am the only person with experience having been a governor for eight years and Senate President; so, I have experience as a legislature and in the executive. So, it would not be difficult for me to unite Nigeria and move the country forward. “We need enabling environment and democratisation of opportunities for all Nigerians regardless of their ethnic and religious background.” In Bayelsa State, Saraki assured the Niger Delta people that he is bold and can spearhead the restructuring of the country if elected as president in the 2023 election. Speaking at the Government House, Yenagoa, Saraki said  Nigeria was moving towards becoming a failed state in terms of security and its poor economy and needs a competent person to reverse the drift. According to him, having served in different capacities, he has the experience both from the private and public sectors to lead the country out of its near state of collapse. While lamenting the disunity among Nigerians, he said he would be the bridge to unite the north and the south, young and old as well as Christians and Muslims. Saraki appealed for support from the state’s delegates in the forthcoming party primary election.