TIPS OF THE WEEK  Bennett  Oghifo The first thing you SHOULD HAVE DONE was to turn around and find another route. However, you now have a car that is stuck in the water and is going nowhere. Here’s what you need to do: Do Not Try Turning The Car On – This cannot be stressed any stronger. Water can damage every single component inside a car including the engine and transmission. If you try to turn the engine on and more water enters, the problem only worsens. When water damages the engine and the pistons don’t compress or move like they normally should, it is called “hydrolock” and it is extremely common in flooded cars. If your car is hydrolocked, you can expect the cost of repairs to be extremely high and in severe cases, the car could completely be destroyed. Get As Much Of The Water Out – When water remains stagnant for long periods of time, it is capable of doing extensive damage to anything it comes in contact with. The wiring and mechanical components are the first things that can get damaged so you will have to work fast. If you find puddles of water in your car, you will have to get rid of them as soon as possible. If you have a wet/dry vacuum cleaner, you can remove the puddles quickly or you can use towels to soak up the water and remove it from the cabin. If you are using a vacuum cleaner, make sure it is not a regular one as you could get electrocuted in the process. Keep The Car Ventilated – Simply removing the water from your car doesn’t solve your problems. Your need to immediately start drying the areas that were flooded. If there is enough sunlight near where your car is parked, simply roll down the windows, open all the doors, and let the heat from the sun work its magic. If there is not sufficient sunlight, you can park your car in an open space and use electric or battery-operated fans to dry out the damp areas. A fan will also help remove any foul odours and keep mould and mildew away. If your car was not severely flooded but the cabin remained wet, you can use the heaters in your car to dry the interiors quickly – just make sure that the engine was not damaged. 3. Ventilate the car: Once you have successfully removed the water build-up from the cabin and other places in the car, you will have to work just as fast to dry the affected areas. If there is enough sunlight near where your car is parked, simply roll down the windows, open all the doors, and let the heat from the sun work its magic. If there is not sufficient sunlight, you can park your car in an open space and use an electric table or standing fan to dry out the damp areas. A fan will also help remove any foul odours and keep mould and mildew away. If your car was not severely flooded but the cabin remained wet, you can use the heaters in your car to dry the interiors quickly – just make sure that the engine was not damaged. Step-by-Step Guide on What to do if Your Car is Flooded Since the monsoons are already upon us, here are some steps to help you get through the process of resuscitating your flood-damaged car: Step 1: Avoid starting the car when it is flooded as the collected water could cause more and irreversible damage to the engine and other components. Step 2: Once the car is out of the water and on dry land, you should first check out the extent of the damage and assess what needs to be done. You can check if the water level was high enough to enter the car or stopped below the doors. In most cases, insurance companies consider water damage to the level of the dashboard as a totaled car and will not look for repair work to be done on it. Step 3: If your car insurance policy covers theft and fire, it would also cover flood damage which is a good sign. However, you will have to be extremely thorough when going through the policy as companies could specify what they are willing to repair and what they choose not to. It is best to go over your policy with your agent as the policy can cover everything from floor mats to entire engine changes. Step 4: When the weather brightens up or if you can find a spot where you and the vehicle are sheltered from the rain, you need to start working on drying the car out quickly. Water damage can be extremely severe, especially to metal and electrical components. You should open all doors and windows to allow air to flow through the entire vehicle. This will stop mould and mildew from growing. You can use towels, mops, or dry/wet vacuum cleaners to get rid of the water inside the cabin. If you can, remove the seats and allow them to dry outside the car so that the cabin gets more ventilation. Step 5: Damp surfaces are a haven for bacteria and fungus and this leads to foul odours. After cleaning your car, you will probably have to replace components such as the floor mats, carpets, upholstery, and maybe even the inner door panels as they all absorb water and could encourage the growth of mildew and mould. If the components are not damaged badly, you should use baking soda to deodorize the car before putting everything back. Step 6: Once the cabin is taken care of, you should immediately start working on the engine. First, you need to check if water has entered the oil tank. Using the dipstick, check if there are droplets of water in the oil. If you do find some droplets, you should not start the car as this could break the cylinders inside the engine. The best thing you can do is have a professional mechanic have a look at the problem. In most cases, the fuel tank is emptied out and then the water is removed. Step 7: Electrical components and water are a match made in hell and that is why you need to check all the wiring and connections before you can actually turn the car on. Once you find that nothing is damaged, you can start checking them one-by-one. Test the car’s headlights, taillights, power windows, turn signals, power locks, seats, lights in the cabin, air conditioning, infotainment system, and any other components that are connected by wire. You should also test the brakes, clutch, steering, and coolant reservoirs. If any of these components or parts are not working properly, you should get a mechanic to take a closer look at the vehicle. Step 8: If you can, get a professional mechanic to take a closer look at your car and see if everything is in working condition. If it’s not, you have to start the insurance work. An agent from the insurance company will take a close look at your car and evaluate whether it should be repaired or replaced. If the cost of repairing the vehicle exceeds its worth, the insurance company will most likely consider it as a totaled car. The insurance agent will take your insurance claim along with photographic proof of the damage to the company for further evaluation. Step 9: If you feel that the repair costs for your flood-damaged car are more than what a new car would cost, you have to move forward with choosing a new one. If you are thinking about a used or second-hand car, there are a number of things you have to consider before you can actually make the purchase. Ask the previous owner or dealership for the history report of the vehicle so that you know all the important information such as previous owners, repairs, and odometer readings. This will also tell you if the car has been in any accidents or has been damaged by fire or floods previously. Finally, you should also get a mechanic to check out the car to ensure that it is good enough to take home. Step 10: When buying a new car, there is a lot of thought and decision-making that has to go into it. The first thing you have to figure out is your budget. Next, you have to decide on the type of car you want (hatchback, SUV, sedan, etc.). Then, you have to choose the brand you want and see whether they have the colour option you want. With new cars, you have to choose from a number of different variations as well so it’s best to do a lot of research before you can actually settle on one car. Also, always have options ready in case you don’t get the car you want at the price you’re willing to pay.(Source: CARS 24)