In a country that is at the vanguard of fashion and style in Africa, the emergence of creative and exciting clothing brands is always a definitive moment in the Nigerian fashion scene. That is the reason the limelight is currently focused on Xtra Brides Lagos, XBL, a fashion outfit founded in 2020 by Paris-trained Nigerian fashion entrepreneur, Oyetomiwa Elizabeth Daniel. Xtra Brides Lagos has seen its stock rising over the past two years until it is presently the numero uno couture for the glitterati. Evidence of its popularity includes the May 14, 2022, Africa Magic Viewers Choice Award in Lagos where the fashion label was the official custom wear label for a slew of the celebrities in attendance including BBN stars Anita Natacha Akide (better known as Tacha) and Nengi Hampson and actress Shaffy Bello. In the same vein, the fashion label took centre stage on May 9 when Nollywood diva Ini Edo celebrated her 40th birthday and released her photos in which she wore an exquisite Xtra Brides Lagos dress. Without any doubt, the clothing outfit has become one of the hottest and most sought-after brands among celebrities. Presently, there is hardly an A-list celebrity worth her weight in gold that is not on the Xtra Brides Lagos fashion train. The list of those who have rocked the XBL brand includes BBN stars Tacha and Nengi, music icons Tiwa Savage and Yemi Alade, A-list actresses Funke Akindele-Bello, Ini Edo and Kate Henshaw, BBN housemates Cee-C and Esther Biade, beauty queen Yetunde Barnabas and TV host and fashion iconoclast, Denrele, amongst others. The skyrocketing popularity of Xtra Brides Lagos brand is exactly what the founder, Oyetomiwa Elizabeth Daniel, envisaged when she conceived her clothing brand.Abeokuta, Ogun State-born Oyetomiwa avowed that the ultimate objective of her brand is to attain global acclaim. The Bowen University alumna said: “I see myself on the global map, dominating the fashion world and changing the narrative of black women through fashion.”