 Adibe Emenyonu in Benin City Enageed Resource Limited, a member of Sahara Group Company, has initiated free healthcare, ICT training and capacity building programmes for residents of Ajoki, in Ikpoba-Okha Local Government Area of Edo State, to bolster sustainable development in the community. No fewer than 600 Ajoki residents and their dependents are expected to benefit from the project, which reinforced Enageed’s commitment to seamless host community relations that promotes economic development, health and safety, and environmental sustainability. The project flagged off with sessions aimed at giving residents foundational knowledge on how to improve their skill sets, pursue self-development goals, personal financing, and business registration. Speaking during the capacity development initiative at the weekend in Ajoki, the Chief Operating Officer (COO), Mr. Henry Menkiti, said Enageed, a sister company to Asharami Energy, had invested in the sustainability of its processes and operations to ensure the safety of residents and facilities in keeping with global standards. Menkiti noted that this has been instrumental to cordial relations and economic growth in Ajoki and its environs. He said: “Enageed developed the new initiative to improve the capacity of local community contractors and set their businesses on a steady growth and expansion pedestal. We are proud of our collaboration with our host communities across all our locations where Enageed is deeply rooted as a proud member and stakeholder.” Menkiti explained that the theme “Connecting our Communities to Endless Opportunities” reaffirmed Enageed’s position that building human and social capital is a never-ending act and is integral to strategic community investments. “Another key component is the session on financial literacy that is designed to help beneficiaries effectively manage and plot the growth of their businesses. This session would ensure our contractors are more knowledgeable about finance, how to access finnce and how to keep their books in a way that is relevant to their business.” Frank Emeruwa, Head of Supply Chain Management, further noted that the company’s commitment to promoting healthy communities is driving the free medical screening sessions for members of the community. Emeruwa said: “Enageed is unwavering in its commitment to the safety and health of its employees and host communities.  We are hopeful that this session will enlighten the community on how to stay healthy and provide relief for people requiring eye care interventions and other basic health challenges.” In his goodwill message, the Secretary General of Ajoki Community, Mr. Scott Omesan, commended Enageed for the laudable initiative, which he noted would continue to facilitate cordial relations between the community and Enageed. Omesan promised that the community “shall do everything possible to protect the company’s facilities in our domain.” A Community Woman Leader, Ms. Esther Koma, was extremely grateful to the company for the medical outreach, particularly for the elderly. Koma asserted that the treatment she received was very beneficial to her and would enable her carry out her daily duties with ease.