Zeal Akaraiwe There’s a very common saying that goes something along the lines of: “By their fruits, you shall know them; can one go to a mango tree and pluck an agbalumo?” I believe that by being patient and observing the fruits, one can learn everything possible regarding a situation as the fruits reveal the tree’s nature. Although there is no “ideal” template for democracy across different societies, we can agree on certain consistent “fruits”, or “features”, of a democracy. Given that countries have varied expressions of their individually-evolved democracy, the following commonly aligns: These are the cardinal points in recognizing a genuine democracy, and if the above do not align, it isn’t a democracy. I purposefully put the right to vote and be voted for last because if voting is the sole evidence of a democracy, it isn’t a democracy. So, what is it if it appears like a democracy? Should it be called a democracy, because the citizens vote like in a democracy but do not reap the “fruits” of democratic governance? It’s called an ELECTOCRACY, and it’s a pseudo-democracy with a name. What exactly is an “electocracy”? Simply described, it is a political system in which power is obtained by elections or merely voting. A more dictionary-type definition would be: “where citizens can vote for their government but cannot directly participate in their governance decision-making; and when the government does not share power with the citizens.” Its characteristics (better known as “consequences”) are pretty easy to determine from the definition. I’ll give you a few examples of the more obvious ones: In order for an electocracy to exist, politicians will have to disrupt democracy’s core institutions and blur the borders around the cardinal premise of democracy, “SEPARATION OF POWERS AND ACCOUNTABILITY.” You’ll note that the executive, legislature, and judiciary will all be in cahoots with one another, deferring to one another rather than holding one another accountable. The ensuing casualties will be rule of law, accountability and livelihood of the common man. Now, let’s get a glimpse into the expectations of a successful democracy. A democracy is not just a style of government, it’s a way of life that exudes from the individual citizens that eventually form the voting bloc. It is no coincidence that “well-educated” is prominent in the building and sustainability of democratic citizens. Nigerians are largely well-schooled and, at best, ill-educated. Evidence of being schooled is a certificate whereas the evidence of being educated is in the ability to think critically and contribute to solving problems in society. To know if we have a democracy, just ask yourself, or better still, ask your kids: A democracy is a daily culture founded on education, freedom, protection, human dignity, and the rule of law. A democracy is felt and observed on a daily basis, just as oppression is. Which of these do you feel? Teach? Live daily? Democracy isn’t something that happens every four years at the polls; it happens every day. So, anything that appears to be a 4-year cycle of activity in which leaders are chosen is merely an electocracy. In conclusion, just as undetected false money is detrimental to the general economy and undetected fake pharmaceuticals may be lethal to humans, an electocracy, which is essentially an undetected fake democracy, can be fatal to the nation and citizens’ well-being. You can’t grow an apple tree with the aim of gathering pineapples, and it’s a mistake to think that just because pineapples contain the word “apple” in their name that they’re one and the same. Just because you call what exists a democracy, doesn’t make it one!  The fruits define it! You cannot reap the dividends of a democracy when you are actively involved in, promoting and enshrining an electocracy in the name of a  democracy. We must ensure that we educate ourselves so that we do not remain ignorant of the wiles of the enemies of our democracy who are here to steal our commonwealth, kill the future of our children and destroy our livelihoods. If we fail to arm ourselves with knowledge and education, we have only ourselves to blame if they continue to run circles around us! The dividends of an electocracy is oppression, compromised judiciary, ineffective law enforcement that oppresses the people instead of protecting them! The dividends of an electocracy is wealth concentrated in the hands of politicians and their families while the general population suffers unemployment and poverty! I started with a popular quote and so I think I should end with one: “If the blind leads the blind, both will end in a ditch”: this amazing quote subtly puts the responsibility on you, whether you can see or not and whether you are ignorant or not, to ensure that those you follow, those that lead you are not in the same incapacitated position as you. Your ignorance will not save you from the ditch. Twitter: @zeal_a | LinkedIn: Zeal Akaraiwe