 Udora Orizu in Abuja General Overseer, Mountain of Fire and Miracles Ministries Worldwide, Dr. Daniel Olukoya yesterday urged Nigerians across the federation earnestly to avert situations that could plunge Nigeria during the 2023 general election. He made the appeal yesterday after dedicating MFM’s new international headquarters annex christened “Prayer, Praise and Power Cathedral” in Wuye district, Abuja. He said: “For the 2023 elections, I advise Christians to pray very well and be led by God before they begin to cast their votes so that we do not end up in more trouble”. On how the new church will impact the lives of residents, the cleric said the new church would change the topography of the place and make the society a better place. Olukoya, spiritually, said: “It would change the topography of this place, people will get delivered and healed and we will make the society a better place. “The basis of all faith is love, when that love is not there, it’s a serious problem indeed. We should have love towards each other and be sensitive to other people’s feelings.” In his brief remarks, Senior Regional Overseer, MFM Headquarters Annex, Pastor Olumide Oni, said everything being witnessed is all God’s grace. He thanked the General Overseer and all those who took part in bringing the project to fruition. Speaking on the project, the Project manager, Pastor Gbenga Olumilua narrated how the senior regional overseer foresaw the building of the church back in 2019. Olumilua  thanked God for his intervention, saying the church “faced challenges since commencement of work. A few years ago, God gave Pastor Oni. When he came, he foresaw that we should move to Wuye. “Some doubted as to where he would get the money. Also COVID-19 came and disrupted a lot, but thankfully contributions started coming in, God intervened and I thank everyone who in one way or another contributed to this project.” Also at the dedication, Director of Finance, Dr. Kunle Egbeleke described Oni as a financial disciplinarian, who made sure all funds for the project were appropriately dispensed. Egbeleke also thanked the technical crew and everyone who in various ways contributed to getting the project completed.