The Nigerian entertainment industry is soaring at astounding heights, and revenue projections have reached a whopping US $5million in 2022. Nollywood, Nigeria’s film and television industry, is making waves worldwide, commanding a global audience on Netflix and other streaming platforms. Nigerian actors, filmmakers, sportspersons, and entertainers are carving international recognition for their talent and their country. In recent years, Nigeria has emerged as the entertainment center of Africa, cementing its position in numerous sectors, including travel, recreation, sports and media. Keep reading to learn what’s trending in Nigeria in 2022. Nollywood has captivated millions of Netflix users worldwide with thrilling potboilers like King of Boys: The Return Of The King, Unroyal, and the recently released sensation, Blood Sisters. Nigerian films and television series allow the global audience to experience the African culture, language, and fables in a unique fashion. Blood Sisters is all the rage on Netflix, and this stomach-churning, mind-bending thriller deserves all the hype it’s getting and much more. Social media is brimming with netizens sharing their experiences of binge-watching this limited series, spanning over 4 episodes, released on May 5, 2022. This unpredictable and poignantly moving tale takes its viewers on a rollercoaster ride filled with raw emotions, bittersweet feelings, and abundant goosebumps, much like all films that originate in Africa. Amazingly, Nollywood is also celebrating the success of its biggest indigenous film, King of Thieves, produced by Femi Adebayo, an ace Nigerian actor, and filmmaker. The King of Thieves has made waves worldwide by grossing over N224 million at the Box Office. Indeed, this warm reception and record-breaking revenue generation is a proud moment for indigenous artists all over the world. Nollywood lovers are excited for multiple Nigerian releases scheduled for later this year. One Too Many, starring Dakore Egbuson-Akande, will depict the harrowing struggle of a mother trying to rescue her son from a corrupt system. Rise is another exciting film expected to release this year on Disney+, a family biopic set on the fascinating story of the Antetokounmpo Family. Fantasy enthusiasts are excited for Tarella, which is touted by industry observers as the African version of the Cinderella story. Nigerians are a nation of sports-loving people who eagerly participate in every sport, from cricket to football and more. Interestingly, Nigerians are competitive sportspeople, and they want to see the teams representing them in international sports perform spectacularly. Football is the most popular sport in the country, and the Nigerian Football team is a force to be reckoned with, given their commendable credentials. The national team regularly competes in international tournaments and regional events. In 2022, Nigeria will be participating in numerous sports events, of which the 2022 FIFA tournaments are indeed the most exciting. The Nigerian women’s team is expected to participate in the FIFA U-20 Women’s World Cup, scheduled in August 2022, in Costa Rica. The Africa Women Cup of Nations, scheduled for July 2022 in Morocco, is another highly anticipated event for women’s national teams across Africa. The 2022 FIFA World Cup, the ultimate showpiece for football enthusiasts, is undoubtedly the most awaited tournament globally. The Nigerian team has been gearing up to up the ante and test its mettle against worthy opponents to make it to the final clash. Nigeria is expected to play against Mali, Congo DR, Egypt, and Cameroon, or it could play against Ghana, depending on its performance. The FIFA World Cup is to be hosted by Qatar, and football fanatics worldwide are vying to secure their VIP tickets and brush up their betting tricks. Those who are planning to do more than just watch this year’s FIFA tournaments should consider checking out the latest news, predictions and odds over at Bet Station, a site that ranks the reputable sports betting sites along with detailed review for the same. Lastly, Nigeria will also be attending the Commonwealth Games this year, expected to be held between July and August 2022, in Birmingham, England. On Sunday, Nollywood actress Nkechi Blessing made waves by issuing a sassy warning to all “broke” men with romantic intentions towards her. Blessing took to her Snapchat on May 5th, and penned down a comical yet straightforward warning. She wrote, “You don’t have the right to chat with me when you are broke. Who do you want to waste her time? My every second counts bro. Ain’t ready to waste it on some meaningless conversation.” Interestingly, the award-winning Nigerian movie star made these comments a few weeks after publicly criticizing her former partner, Opeyemi Falegan, for being “broke” and jobless. The actress was very vocal about her struggles with a partner who constantly relied on her for money. It makes sense that she has now resorted to a public declaration of her distaste for “broke” men. You go, girl! Amazingly, Nkechi Blessing wasn’t the only Nigerian actress to make news over her assertive romantic ideals. Oluwatoyin Albert, the famous Nigerian content creator, popularly known as Datwarrigal, shocked millions by sharing that she is only interested in “toxic relationships.” It may come as a surprise for many, but for Datwarrigal, a peaceful relationship simply isn’t attractive because she loves the drama of a toxic one. Broadcasting her views in a video, Albert said, “I’m not interested in a peaceful relationship, rather a toxic one. A relationship filled with drama.” Albert proclaimed her love for drug lords and expressed her desire to find a partner who has connections with a drug cartel. We hope you find your drug lord soon, Datwarrigal. 2022 is set to be an exciting year of success and world wide recognition for Nigerian artists, filmmakers, writers, sportspeople, and the nation at large. What are you gearing up to watch, Nigerian films or the Super Eagle’s performance at the 2022 FIFA World Cup?