 Segun James The Lagos State government has lamented that the transportation sector account for over 60 per cent of greenhouse gases in the state. The State Commissioner for Transportation, Dr. Frederic Oladeinde, who disclosed this, said as part of efforts to control the emission, Lagos would to host a two-day event organised by the Nigeria Transport Commissioners Forum under the support of the Federal Ministry of Transportation. According to Oladeinde, the transport sector represents the largest emission of greenhouse in the country, saying the state government was putting measures in place to ensure that dependence on petrol-powered vehicles was reduced. The Commissioner explained that the maiden edition of National Transport Technology Conference and Exhibition, (NTTCE) would provide stakeholders opportunity to provide solution to challenges facing transportation sector in the country. The conference which was slated for June 7th and 8th, Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, would be participating as a member of the panelists while the event would be chaired by the Minister of State for Transport, Senator Gbemisola Saraki. Oladeinde said, “The only way to reduce greenhouse emission in the transport sector is to use technology by moving away from petrol cars to CNG and gradually to electric. “We believe strongly that the coming together under the same umbrella of all Commissioners for Transport nationwide will give a better avenue for seamless implementation for resolutions reached at the conference. “Additionally, Leading Manufacturers and provider of transport technology solutions will also be showcasing the latest and future-proved transport technology solutions at this first of its kind transport fair as well as a gala and industry award night to ramp up the two-day event. “Key decision makers, experts and operators in the road, rail, water and air transport sectors will be in attendance to discuss the current and emerging trends in the smart transportation infrastructure as well as fashion out ways of integrating them into the Nigerian transportation space. “Discussions geared towards improving efficiency and sustainability of transport technology solutions in Nigeria for proper implementation and development with other tropical issues will be clearly highlighted at the conference. “Search light will be beamed on the road transportation sector which is perceived to have been ignored, solutions will be proffered to issues faced daily by the operators and users alike. “Challenges which include but not limited to traffic congestion, road accident, parking problems and environmental pollution will also be critically analysed,” the Commissioner hinted. The representative of Nigerian Transportation Commissioners Forum, Mrs. Chinwe Uwaegbute, who also spoke at the briefing said Lagos was chosen to host the event because of its strategic role in terms of transportation system in the country, noting the State is far ahead of other states in the use of technology for transportation. She added that at the conference, there would be an action plan which would guide the federal government in its policies on transportation.