 John Shiklam in Kaduna Former Senate President and presidential aspirant on the platform of the Democratic Party (PDP), Dr. Bukola Saraki has promised to address challenges of hunger and insecurity if elected president. Saraki who visited PDP delegates in Kaduna, yesterday, to solicit for their support in the forthcoming PDP presidential primaries, spoke during an interview with journalists shortly after a closed door meeting with a former governor of Kaduna State, senator Ahmed Makarfi. He said Nigeria was in dire need of a leader who would unite the people and address the security and economic challenges facing the country. “We are here in Kaduna to see the delegates and the leader of the party in Kaduna State and our former National Chairman, Senator Ahmed Makarfi, to seek his support and discuss the need for the PDP to put forward a person that has leadership capacity to rescue Nigeria from where we are. “What I will be doing differently as the president of Nigeria is that, the most important thing is uniting the people of Nigeria, let everybody have a sense of belonging”, Saraki said. According to him, unity was key to progress of the country, stressing that he would ensure accountability and also ensure that, security and the economy works. “We need to ensure we have a president that has empathy. Look at what is going on in Kaduna State. When I was a banker, we use to come to Kaduna to market at the textile companies. “We have to revive the textile industries. The focus has to be on not relying on oil and ensure export earnings in non-oil sector grows, so that jobs can be created for a lot of youths. But to do this, you need a President that knows what it takes”, Saraki said. Speaking earlier while addressing the PDP delegates at the party secretariat, Saraki lamented the endemic poverty and hunger among Nigerians. He said if elected president he would provide free medical services to Nigerians and create jobs.Saraki said: “I am here to address our delegates in Kaduna State because without the blessings of Kaduna state nothing will happen. It is God that made so. “2023 is not a time to vote any how person into power. We need a courageous man to lead Nigeria. I stood my ground as Senate President for things to work well.“I am a medical doctor, and I will ensure free medical services to Nigerians. There is hunger in Nigeria. There is insecurity. “I will make insecurity a thing of the past especially in the North-west.“We must unite the country because we are one. So vote me into power and I will revive all Textiles industries in Kaduna. We must provide employment to youths. This is the time you need a Nigerian who is respected across the world. “I am your own. I will fix Nigeria. Find the person who can unite Nigeria. I am that person”.In his remarks, the Kaduna state chairman of the PDP, Hassan Hyet, described Saraki as a young and silent achiever.