 Chuks Okocha captures  the intrigues that gave the Peoples Democratic Party presidential ticket to former Vice President,  Atiku Abubakar and ensured the defeat of Governor Nyesom Wike The victory of former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar at the presidential primary of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) at the weekend in Abuja did not happen by a stroke of luck. Rather,  it was a well articulated decision by Northern stakeholders to retain power by having another Northerner after eight years of President Mohammadu Buhari. The intrigues The game changer was the governor of Sokoto state,  Aminu Waziri Tambuwal  and others that discretely stepped down  for Atiku before voting started at the presidential nomination convention. Before the convention kicked off,  there were series of horse trading that swung the tide in favour of the former Vice President.  Top northern stakeholders of the PDP had weighed on the two governors: Tambuwal  and his counterpart from Bauchi state,  Bala Mohammed. Both men were presidential aspirants, as well as, Mohammed Hayatu-Deen On Thursday and Friday preceding the convention,  it was already clear that some of the Northern presidential aspirants would step down for Abubakar.  Whereas,  the governor of Rivers state,  Nyesom Wike was seen as buying delegates,  Atiku and the northern establishment were plotting how presidential aspirants would step down for the chosen one. The calculation was that the Sokoto state governor should step down for Atiku to enable him focus on the Sokoto south senatorial seat. The incumbent senator, Senator Danbaba who sensed the hand writing on the wall had defected to the APC,  to enable him face Tambuwal at the senatorial election. The issue was when will the governor announce his stepping and it was agreed that it should be at the venue of the presidential nomination convention. The aim was that it will douse the already electrified support of  Wike. On the other hand,  Bala Mohammed had refused to step down for Abubakar,  insisting that he would fight to the end,  which he did. However, he discretely asked his delegates to vote Atiku Though,  the investment banker, Mohammed Hayatu-Deen was prevailed upon  to step down,  he however chose to do it in his own way by blaming it on the excessive display of money  by his fellow aspirants.  He dropped his letter of resignation from the presidential race barely hours to the commencement of the convention. The position of the PDP northern stakeholders was masterminded by the former National Security Adviser,  General Aliyu Gusau and the former governor of Sokoto state,  Attahiru Bafarawa. At the convention venue when all the presidential aspirants had spoken for the allotted  five minutes,  that they were allowed to speak to the delegates and the voting was about to commence,  Tambuwal mounted the rostrum and there was complete silence. The environment was so quiet  that one could have heard the drop of a pin. Every one was anxious to hear what he wanted to say. The timing was perfect. This was  because it dwarfed the noisy supporters of Wike who were still dancing and jubilating after his five minutes address to the delegates. Then, came the clincher, the  Sokoto state governor picked the microphone and announced his withdrawal from the race. He equally urged his supporters among the delegates to vote for the former vice president of Nigeria, Atiku Abubakar. Many were surprised because Wike stood by him in 2018 when  he contested and came second. According to him. “Time has come for us to make sacrifices in the interest of our party and our nation. I have come to the conclusion that I have to step down “Having consulted so many people across the country, the time has come to make the sacrifice for the good of the country and the party and also to minimize rancour and justle for power among aspirants. I have come to conclusion to step down from the race. I urge my supporters to vote for Atiku Abubakar.” On his own part,  Governor Bala Mohammed, though had refused to withdraw,  sent words round to his coordinators that they should vote for Atiku. That was all that was needed to break Wike’s supporters. At the convention,  Wike was sure that he will carry the day.  In fact,  when he entered the indoor sports complex of the MKO Abiola Stadium,  his supporters were uncontrollably noisy. The situation almost got out of hand,  when he went round to acknowledge greetings from the delegates Then the results As the result of the primary election announced by the Chief Returning Officer and former President of the Senate, Senator David Mark started rolling in, it turned out that  Abubakar polled 371 votes to defeat his main challenger and Governor of Rivers State, Mr Nyesom Wike, who scored 237 votes. Former President of the Senate, Dr Bukola Saraki came a distant third with 70 votes, while Governor of Akwa Ibom State, Mr Udom Emmanuel and his counterpart in Bauchi State, Senator Bala Mohammed scored 38 votes and 20 votes, respectively.The delegates cast 763 votes; 12 votes were voided while the number of valid votes was 751. A former Senate President, Senator Anyim Pius Anyim got 14 votes while Mr Sam Ohuabunwa and the only female aspirant, Terila Diana Oliver, got one vote each. A former Governor of Ekiti State, Mr Ayo Fayose got zero, while the Publisher of Ovation, Mr Dele Momodu, also recorded no vote to his name. The EFCC Presence Amidst speculations of Dollar rain by presidential aspirants, operatives of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission  arrived at the Velodrome of the MKO Abiola   Stadium Abuja to monitor proceedings. Over one dozen EFCC officers dressed in their official red overcoats with EFCC boldly written behind were sighted moving around the PDP delegates’ stand. That was the kill joy of the convention because with the announcement of Tambuwal for Atiku ,  it was expected that there would Dollar realignment to balance the equation,  but the presence of the anti-graft agency stopped the expected dollar rain. The EFCC officers were seen searching every Ghana must go bag on sight Delegates were worried about the presence of the anti graft agency officials,  with some querying their presence and asking whether they will have the guts to go to the APC convention. The speeches… The convention witnessed the presentation of flowery speeches from the leadership of the PDP,  starting with the national chairman, Dr.  Iyorchia Ayu and the chairman of the convention committee, former senate president,  David Mark In his remarks, the National Chairman of the party, Dr Iyorchia Ayu, said the focus of the party is to win the 2023 general election. Ayu said the victory of PDP in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) area council elections and other by-elections was a signal that Nigerians wanted PDP back to power in 2023. “Our focus is on 2023, but we seek to retake both Osun and Ekiti states in July elections as our low-hanging fruits. “The electoral triumphs from there will sustain our momentum, boost the morale of party members and amplify our notice to the overwhelmed All Progressives Congress (APC) that PDP is coming. “With PDP, Nigeria shall rise again,” Ayu said. He added that his leadership had worked to unite, rebrand and reposition the party, while also reviving the intellectual arm of the party, the Peoples Democratic Institute (PDI). Speaking during the convention, a former President of the Senate and Chairman, of the 2022 PDP National Convention Organizing Committee, Senator David Mark, described the convention as a call to salvage Nigeria and offer solutions to its present challenges. Mark said the country is currently faced with challenges: including over three months strike by the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), insecurity, unemployment and poverty. He said that history beckoned on PDP to rescue the nation. “Today’s convention is beyond the ordinary, it is a call to salvage Nigeria from the brink. Nigeria has had chequered socio-economic and political problems but never has it descended so low. “The 2023 election is not a contest between the PDP and other political parties, it will be a moment of historic decision of all Nigerians to right the wrongs at the moment and faith in the PDP as the vehicle to redeem the situation and give them a chance to live again. “No wonder, our logo the umbrella, is a veritable shade and shield for Nigerians and Nigeria as an entity. “It is therefore a call to patriotic national service for, all of us; delegates to make the wise decision which will ultimately save Nigeria,” he said. QUOTE Every one was anxious to hear what he wanted to say. The timing was perfect. This was  because it dwarfed the noisy supporters of Wike who were still dancing and jubilating after his five minutes address to the delegates. Then, came the clincher, the  Sokoto state governor picked the microphone and announced his withdrawal from the race.He equally urged his supporters among the delegates to vote for the former vice president of Nigeria, Atiku Abubakar. Many were surprised because Wike stood by him in 2018 when  he contested and came second