 By Vanessa Obioha The eighth edition of the Africa Magic Viewers Choice Awards reached its glittering climax this night when the main ceremony was held. The Ramsey Nouah-directed movie ‘Rattlesnake – The Ahanna Story’ took home the top three awards including Best Director, Best Actor and Best Actress awards. The win was a first for its lead actor Stan Nze and an emotional Osas Ighodaro. The Best Overal Movie sponsored by Amstel Malta went to Izu Ojukwu and Okey Ogunjiofor’s film ‘Amina’ which had the highest number of nominations. In the TV series, film producer and actress Funke Akindele retained her spot as the winner of the Best Actress in Comedy TV Series or Movie for her role in ‘Omo Ghetto: The Saga’, while actor and skit maker Samuel Perry popularly known as Broda Shaggi for his role in ‘Dwindle’.The trailblazer award went to Teniols Aladese while Industry Award went to Taiwo Ajai-Lycett. The legendary thespian received a standing ovation as she danced to the stage.“I’m usually garrulous but I’m lost for words,” she began. “This is unusual. My heart is beating gbim gbim, una wan kill me.” She added that her greatest joy was coming back home and having the industry embrace her. She also acknowledged the filmmaker Rogers Ofime for bringing her home to work in the industry. Returning after the pandemic year, The 2022 AMVCA celebrated creative talents in the film, digital and TV platforms. It retained some of its traditions such as paying tributes to creative talents who passed away in the past two years like Ifeanyi Dike, Obama DMW, Gift Ameh, and Chico Ejiro among others. For the tribute, winner and runner-up of the last Nigerian Idol Kingdom Kroseide and Akunna performed ‘I Was Here’, a moving song by American singer-songwriter Beyoncé. The Best MultiChoice Talent Factory also returned this year with Daisy Masembe taking the award for ‘Engaito’. Uti Nwachukwu, one of the presenters for the Best Dressed Celebrities for the night used the opportunity to urge Nigerians in the audience to get their PVCs. The winners in this category were Denola Grey for the male and Ighodaro for the female.