 Emma Okonji The Chairman of Africa ICT Alliance (AfICTA), Mr. Thabo Mashegoane has called for collaboration, while urging industry players to continue closing the gap that exists between all sectors involved in delivering the information society. He said the move would help to realise a digital Africa through knowledge sharing, trade facilitation, and cross-African advocacy. This was contained in his recent goodwill message to mark the 10th anniversary of the African ICT body. Mashegoane while appreciating all the stakeholders involved in AfICTA’s milestone of success, assured them that the concerned private sector-led alliance was committed to fulfilling the promise of the digital age for everyone in Africa by connecting African ICT players for increased intra-African trade and collaboration. According to him, “It is with great joy, pride, and honour that we announce the 10th-anniversary celebration of AfICTA – Africa ICT Alliance. AfICTA is a concerned private sector-led alliance. The alliance was founded in the year 2012 by six member nations including Nigeria, South Africa, Egypt, Kenya, Tunisia and the Gambia, led by Dr. Jimson Olufuye, the founder, Past Chairman, and the Chair of the Advisory Council. “The first decade has passed with huge achievements and some challenges but the hard work, steadfast dedication, and unwavering support of all our members both founding and emerging ensured the growth of AfICTA. “Today, AfICTA has covered over 35 nations of Africa from the initial 6 pioneer members with about 300 registered ICT businesses (National Associations inclusive) across the continent.” Mashegoane further said: “AfICTA, in line with its Constitution, has witnessed two impactful successive leadership tenures from Dr. Jimson Olufuye, the founder of AfICTA and CEO Kontemporary Konsulting, from 2012 through 2018 to Hossam Elgamal, CEO of IKEN, from 2018-2020 and former Egyptian Cabinet member; and now Mr. Thabo Mashegoane, former President, Institute of IT Professionals of South Africa (formerly the Computer Society of South Africa) since 2020.” AfICTA in its advocacy for prosperity and enabling environment for businesses in Africa has held nine consecutive summits in different member nations and from the past experiences and outcomes of the summits. AfICTA continues to close the gap that exists between all sectors that are involved in shaping the Internet and delivering the information society to the realisation of digital Africa through knowledge sharing, trade facilitation, and cross-African advocacy. “In 2018, the strategy to further deepen engagement and fast-track the realisation of the Sustainable Development Goals by 2030 was conceived, and that birthed organizing quarterly regional focused eConferences and capacity development seminars, discussing pertinent topics to each region in Africa and working with governments and other involved stakeholders in achieving the recommendations thereof”, Mashegoane added. According to AfICTA Chairman, in the past 10 years, the alliance has added its impactful voice to Internet Public Policy discussions at the United Nations Commission on Science and Technology for Development through its Working Groups on Internet Governance Forum and Enhanced Cooperation. “We have thus accomplished partnerships with several international bodies of like minds and we continue to build on such relationships. Some of the partners are the African Union, ICANN-BC, European Union, United Nation on Economic Commission for Africa, Asian-Oceania Computing Industry Organisation. AfICTA has indeed been identified as the leading digital business voice on the continent”, he further said.