 Ugo Aliogo As part of efforts to support federal government commitment to drive increased food production, the Oxford Green Farms Group has stated that they want to support the Federal Government’s drive towards self-sustainability in food production. Speaking at the media briefing to launch the group product ‘Agrolyfe’, the Chief Executive Officer, Oxford Green Farms Group, Dr. Goodluck Precious, said the group is working towards acquiring 10 million acres of farmland and on-boarding 10,000 farmers on our platform within the next five years. He also stated that they would give farmers that they are on-boarding access to grants and off takers for their farming to boost capacity and output, adding that this would add up to 20 percent boost to Nigeria’s overall food production capacity. He further explained that the organisation’s research team has been relentless in designing an innovative product that is market-fit, appeals to everyone, and creates consistent income-earning opportunities for everyone interested, “this is what birthed the product we are launching today, Agrolyfe.” According to him, “AGROLYFE is that child delivered when you marry Agriculture with Real Estate; it is a product that leverages farming and real estate to generate stable and reliable rental income for customers through farmland acquisition. Think of it like this: Buy Land, Rent Out to Farmers for Farming, and Earn Rental on these farms at Short Intervals. Smart, right? That is exactly what AgroLyfe is. With AgroLyfe, you can purchase farmlands from as low as N100,000 to N2,000,000, and earn rentals on it every three months. We immediately flag off with four farm locations, including Ijaka in Aiyetoro, Ogun state, Itele in Ijebu, Ogun state, Imala Town, Oke-Ogun, and Ibadan, Oyo state. And we are adding 20 more locations to this scheme within the next 30 – 60 days.” Also speaking at the event, the Managing Director, AgroLyfe, Mr. Yinka Phillips, noted that the product offering is targeting 10,000 acres of arable land in its pilot phase for this year.