Society Watch During the electioneering times, particularly in this part of the world, the polity always witnesses strange activities, horse-trading, propaganda, half-truths and, many times, outright lies from desperate politicians. For them, the only way to remain relevant and be what they are not in the eyes of the people is to spread falsehoods, half-truths and, most times, tell wicked lies about their opponents. But they forget that no matter how far a lie travels, the truth will definitely catch up with it. The foregoing scenario seems to be playing out ahead of the 2023 general elections, as a leading aspirant in the Ilaje-Ese Odo Federal Constituency of Ondo State on the platform of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Otunba Ayara Olamigoke, has denied reports in some section of the media allegedly sponsored by a former commissioner in the state to tarnish his image. The former US-based Olamigoke who faulted the publication dated May 9, 2022, said: “Ordinarily, we would have ignored the publication because we know the aspirant behind it is someone without any electoral value but we have decided to respond in order to put the records straight. “There is no time Otunba Ayara Olamigoke has relied on the Deputy Governor of Ondo State to support or push him through to get the ticket of the party. Rather, he has been peacefully talking to various leaders, excos, members and delegates of the party for support which is the right thing to do in politics and politicking and the support I am getting from these people is overwhelming as I am truly the people’s choice for the job. “One begins to wonder why an aspirant who moved from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to APC in 2016 and was made a commissioner would want to soil the hard-earned and mutually respected working relationship between the governor and deputy governor, with his ambition that is not backed by his people,” Olamigoke said. He explained further that in 2016, the aspirant was welcomed and accepted into the APC by all without any discrimination. “He was eventually appointed as a Deputy Chief of Staff and later Commissioner, despite that many foundation members of the party are more capable and competent to hold those positions. But they accepted it in good faith and supported him. “We humbly suggest that the governor should be careful with such character/person as this perceived rosy relationship will automatically turn sour in no distant time.” Olamigoke stated further that the ex-commissioner should be more concerned “with how to redeem his image and monumental failure in government for seven years and appeal to his people to support him, rather than tarnishing the image of his benefactor.”