 The world’s bestselling cognac, Hennessy is proud to introduce ‘In the Paint’ to FESTAC, Nigeria – a unique artistic initiative that brings the Never Stop Never Settle spirit of the brand to local communities through basketball and art. Deeply rooted in urban culture, Hennessy’s ambition is to inspire and bring communities together. To celebrate these values, Hennessy has collaborated with renowned Nigerian Visual artist, OsaSeven to revitalize Park 23 basketball court on 23 road, FESTAC town – a court he played on as a kid 20 years ago. The collaboration demonstrates Hennessy’s long-standing commitment towards supporting talented artists who embody the brand’s ethos of Never Stop Never Settle, continuing a decade of meaningful artistic collaborations. “In The Paint is part of a global series of artistic collaborations anchored on the role basketball plays within community, with the first initiative having launched in Montreal, Canada in 2021,” says Oluwole Awoleke, Marketing Manager Nigeria. “We’re excited to reveal the results of this synergy with Osa Seven – for Hennessy it’s always been about moving beyond the lines. Hennessy is more than a cognac and this project is a testament to the fact that Hennessy continues to be the brand that enables the true spirit of community through the In the Paint initiative”. Blending urban culture and cognac, the court design draws inspiration from the diverse cultures in Nigeria, while also celebrating heritage, unending creativity, and innovation. On the court, OsaSeven, shows the iconic “Bras Armé” symbol that is synonymous with Hennessy placed in the middle of the design, an elaborate display of the Benin Ivory mask which is used as the FESTAC official logo and a symbol of heritage. The choice of curved patterns and colors depicts clouds heavy with rain before the break of dawn, which re-emphasizes the resilient attitude of Nigerians which fits perfectly into Hennessy’s DNA According to OsaSeven, ‘This Artwork which is made up of bold curve patterns, colors and the Benin Queen bronze head represents the point where yesterday and tomorrow meets… today “ The Park 23 court will open its doors to the public on the 18th of May 2022.