 Chike Okeke Some people are gone but not forgotten, some are still here but already forgotten – Mokohoma Mokhonoana, a South African philosopher and social critic. The late Oba Daniel Arinze Nwandu Oba I, the Traditional Prime Minister of EnugwuUkwu in Njikoka Local Government Area Anambra State definitely belongs to the first category. He was a man of many firsts who packed numerous accomplishments in his 63 years on earth, 1918-1981. He was born on January 1, 1918 at Enugwu-Ukwu in Njikoka L.G.A of Anambra State, of very humble parentage. His father was a local carver and farmer. He had his elementary education at Emmanuel School Enugwu-Ukwu and later finished at Central School Abagana. As the quest for education in those days depended more on the state of your overall wellbeing, the young Daniel had no choice but to get into the fast track of survival and taking care of his parents. So in 1932, Arinze, then a boy of 14 journeyed to the coal city of Enugu to become a trading apprentice to one Mr, Qfodile who was a General Merchandise entrepreneur. Within 6 years the young and dynamic Nwandu set out on his own, dealing mainly in smoked fish, onions, groundnut oil etc which came from the Northern part the country. This petty trading lasted for only two years when he decided to try his hands in petty contracting. The late Dr. Pius Okigbo used to admire the dynamism and business (knowledge of the late Oba Nwandu and gave him his first major contract. It was after this that in 1949 he combined with late Chief D.O Okafor to construct the Old Eastern House of Assembly and the Eastern General Contractors Ltd (EGC). was formed. The E.G.C. as it was known, bestrode the Eastern Nigeria Construction Industry like a colossus, so much so that it was easily mistaken for a Government outfit. The E.G.C. Ltd challenged and broke the monopoly of the expatriates to choice contract works. It is to the credit of Eastern General Contractors Ltd. that many edifices were executed successfully by the company including the Old Eastern House of Assembly, Over 50% of buildings at University of Nigeria Nsukka Campus, Administrative Block of I.M.T Enugu, The entire campus of Alvan Ikoku College of Education, Owerri, Classrooms and hostel blocks of Government Secondary School, Owerri, Chapel of Methodist College Uzuakoli, Extension of Governors Lodge Enugu, The National Archives Enugu, Senior Staff Quarters of Nigerian Army Barracks Enugu, 11-The Municipal Hall and offices buildings of Enugu Town Hall and many others. During the later part of his life, another family construction name D.A Nwandu and Sons Ltd came into being which built some land mark projects like the Ikom Army barracks, the 500 housing units in Ajaokuta Steel Township which were about to take off before his home call. Oba D.A Nwandu who made his mark in contracting and business also ventured into politics. In 1960, he contested and won election into the Onitsha Provincial Assembly on the ticket of Umunri Clan. He also contested and won election into the Enugu Urban Council in 1953 where he served in various Committees as Chairman and Vice Chairman respectfully from 1953 to 1956. Most importantly he was elected into the very high office of Mayor of Enugu, a position he held from 1964 until the outbreak of Nigeria Civil war in 1967. Despite Oba Nwandu’s cosmopolitan engagements, he still found energy and strength to serve his Enugwu-Ukwu Community. He was the President General of the Enugwu-Ukwu Community Development Union for Twenty Seven Years. He was also the Oba 1 (Traditional Prime Minister) of the town until he departed on May 5th, 1981. The Late Oba Nwandu’s off springs have kept his huge flag flying in their various professions and callings. Led by 76 years old Arc. Dr. Donald Arinze Nwandu, fnia, Oba II (Traditional Prime Minister of Enugwu-Ukwu) and Regent of Enugwu-Ukwu after the death of Late Igwe Osita Agwuna until the coronation of the present Igwe Ralph Ekpeh in 2011, the Nwandu family has shown very good examples in Strength in Unity, Community service, philanthropy and pioneering social and economic development activities. Some members of the family include Chief Ezugo Nwandu (Owelle) who built and donated a modern civic centre to their village in addition to his secondary and university scholarship scheme, Chief Anayo Nwandu also has a Scholarship scheme and Chief Emeka Nwandu who donated a church Ebenezer Anglican Church for the worship of God in Enugu. They have demonstrated that as Winston Churchill in one of his famous quotes stated “we make a living by what we get, but we make a life by what we give”. The family made history on the 5th day of May 2022 the 41st Anniversary of the late patriarch’s death when they handed over a magnificent edifice the Oba Daniel Nwandu Research Centre in Architecture to the Nnamdi Azikiwe Univery, Awka, donated in honour and everlasting memory of their late father. The Project was conceived by Obi Nwandu an Architectural and Interior designer, supervised by project architect Arc. Dr. Donald Nwandu while the project manager was Chief Ezugo Dan Nwandu (Owelle). The project was managed under Danstacher Turnkey Contractors umbrella. The centre has total of 13 offices/ lecture halls, utility rooms, with very spacious HOD’s office with conference room, 2 no. axial circulation corridors, a memorabilia/ gallery space and a large conference room. The entire building is fully air conditioned and serviced by a brand new 300 KVA Generating set and a transformer. According to the head of the family, Arc. Dr. Donald Nwandu, Owelle Dan Nwandu provided majority of the funding and materials for the project, followed by his humble self and Chief Anayo Nwandu (Akunwata). Some of the Nwandu in-laws including Chief David Agbim and Chief Obinna Akwiwu as well as Chief Kofi Obijiofor (Onowu Nanka) a close family friend and Mr. Ifeanyi Okoroigwe, a beneficiary of Ezugo Nwandu’s Scholarship also provided financial support. The Pro Chancellor of the University, Prof Kuranga and Esimone respectively paid glowing tributes to all the members of the Nwandu family for conceiving and donating the magnificent edifice to the institution and called on other public spirited individuals in the society to emulate the worthy example of the Nwandu family. They assured that the edifice will be maintained regularly as a show piece of one of the giant monuments in UNIZIK. One of the highlights of the occasion was the announcement by Chief Emeka Nwandu of an annual cash price of N100,000 for the best graduating student in the Department of Architecture in the University to be sponsored by him. Other members of the Nwandu family who were present at the occasion were Chief Mrs. Ngozi Nwandu (Ada Oba), Chief Agbasiere Eze Dara of Uli and his wife Pharm. Mrs. Njideka Agbasiere (nee Nwandu), Dr. IK Nwandu, Mr. Ifeanyi Nwandu, Dame Uzo Nwandu and Mrs. Mma Nwandu. The take home from this unique and memorable ceremony is that as Henry Longfellow stated: Lives of great men all remind us, we can make our lives sublime and departing leave behind us footprints on the sands of time. One such footprint is the Oba Daniel Nwandu Research Centre in Architecture at the Nnamdi Azikiwe Univeristy, Awka. Okeke wrote in from Enugwu-Ukwu.