 Nume Ekeghe Dr. Ken Opara has been sworn in as the 22nd President/ Chairman of Council of the Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria (CIBN). Opara took over the CIBN leadership on over the weekend in Lagos from Dr. Bayo Olugbemi his predecessor and promised to transform and move the institute to greater heights. He promised that he would ensure the institute’s primary business shaped the future of financial intermediation. He crafted the strategic focus of his administration in the next two years into the acronym “FUTURE”. Opara, who is also the Executive Director in charge of the Lagos & Southwest Directorate, Fidelity Bank Plc had served as the First Vice President and Chairman, Board of Fellows and Practice Licenses at CIBN. Opara in his acceptance speech paid tributes to the founding fathers of the Institute who sacrificed and contributed immensely to its growth and development over the years. Opara said:  “Our strategic focus is crafted into an acronym  “FUTURE”  which focuses on six key strategic pillars: Financial innovation and transformation, Dealing with industry Uncertainties, Trade and finance collaboration. Others are: Unveiling pathways for membership growth, Reengineering and Rebranding the industry’s business model around Gen Z and Ethical conduct and governance.” A former Deputy Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and Chairman of the occasion, Mr. Ernest Ebi gave the charged the Independent Electoral Commission and other stakeholders to copy the transition of power within the, CIBN, through its peaceful elections. Ebi pointed out that peaceful elections will amount to economic growth and development. In a good will message, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State, represented by Lagos state Commissioner for finance, Dr. Rabiu Olowo, applauded the numerous contributions of the banking industry in different areas of the country and Lagos in particular, through the leadership of CIBN. In his intervention, the outgoing President, Dr Bayo Olugbemi, thanked the CBN Governor, Godwin Emefiele, NDIC CEO, Mr. Hassan Bello, Body of Banks CEO’s and other stakeholders for the support given him during his tenure. He said that “As I pass on the baton to my successor, whom I have known for many years as a seasoned banking professional, who is very passionate about the Institute, I am absolutely convinced that he would take the Institute to greater heights.