 Chiedu Uche Okoye contends that Obi’s resignation demonstrates his aversion for vote buying Among the three major ethnic groups in Nigeria, only the southeast geopolitical zone has not produced the president of Nigeria in this fourth republic. Our use of the principle of rotational presidency ensured that some geopolitical zones produced the president of Nigeria at different periods in this fourth republic. The overriding need to preserve the unity of Nigeria and maintain her indissolubility necessitated the adoption of the principle of rotational presidency by PDP and other political parties in 1999. Now, nobody can gainsay the fact that our adoption of rotational presidency to choose our national leaders has guaranteed us political stability. Before 1999, Nigeria was wracked by political crises sparked off by the cancellation of the June 12, 1993 presidential election, presumably, won by a Yoruba man, Chief MKO Abiola. But the ceding of the presidential seat to the southwest, the homeland of the Yoruba people, in 1999, which marked the beginning of our practice of rotational presidency in the fourth republic, doused political tension in Nigeria. And Dr. Goodluck Jonathan’s acceptance of defeat in the 2015 presidential election, even when there were irrefutable proofs that the election was rigged, prevented the country from descending into a political crisis. Then, Dr. Goodluck Jonathan acted in a statesmanlike manner by relinquishing power, which made it possible for a northerner to become the president of Nigeria. The swing of presidential power from the north to the south is the antidote to the fears of marginalization, which people from the minority ethnic groups in Nigeria harbour. But sadly, now, the political mileage and the achievements we have recorded so far owing to the existence of the principle of rotational presidency in Nigeria will be eroded if our political parties discard the principle of rotational presidency in the conduct of their 2023 presidential primary elections. But are the politicians bothered about the consequences of their abandoning the unwritten principle of rotational presidency in choosing their political parties’ presidential candidates? However, today, many northern politicians, who belong to either PDP or APC,  are implacably opposed to the continued application of the principle of rotational presidency because they feel that they have the demographic and numerical strength to produce the president of Nigeria. And those northern ethnic chauvinists have the wrong notion that they are born to rule over other peoples in Nigeria. Now, the northern elements in PDP and APC are pushing for open contest for the presidential tickets at the expense of rotational presidency, which used to be the norm. And they have had their way. But their stance on the matter is repugnant to natural justice, equity, and fairness. And it does not bode well for the political stability and continued existence of Nigeria as one indivisible political entity given the separatist rumbling in the southeast of Nigeria. So having seen the auguries of the entombment of rotational presidency in our country, and knowing that he will be outmaneuvered in the PDP presidential primary election by stupendously rich and knavish politicians, Mr. Peter Obi left PDP. Obi’s leaving the party is a demonstration of his aversion for vote buying. His action, which has found resonance among millions of Nigerians, will, no doubt, cause the evolution of our democratic culture. And his resignation from the PDP, which is a judicious and courageous deed, has cast him in good light. Before he left PDP, Peter Obi had millions of followers and supporters online. Millions of Nigerians, who hail from diverse religious and ethnic backgrounds, have bought into his presidential bid and candidature. Daily, the number of his supporters has kept increasing, exponentially. But what are Mr. Peter Obi’s personal qualities, which have endeared him to millions of Nigerians? He performed spectacularly as the Anambra State governor. It was he who ended the evil run and reign of political godfathers in Anambra State when he ousted Dr. Chris Ngige from office through electoral litigation. Before then, Anambra was choking under the stranglehold of political godfathers. It’s Mr. Peter Obi who revamped both the educational and health sectors in Anambra. He returned some post-primary schools to Anglican and Catholic churches, which are the rightful owners of those schools.  Not only did he donate computers, buses, and science equipment to post-primary schools in the state, then, he also built classroom blocks for them. And hospitals owned by the Anglican and Catholic churches received financial boost. While a former governor of the state owed teachers a backlog of salaries, and called retired government workers deadwoods, Obi paid retirees their gratuities and pension. I remember my dear mother, Mrs Ednah Ngozi Okoye (deceased) beaming with beatific satisfaction when she received the gratuity of her daughter, Miss Chinwe Bessie Okoye, who died in harness as a headmistress in 2006. “Mr Peter Obi is a good man. He is godsend. And God will continue to bless him, ” she said. ” He is a simple man, who shook our hands, and smiled at us, ” my mother narrated to me laughing, and with a note of pride in her voice. So, at this critical juncture in our political odyssey, we need Mr. Peter Obi and his ilk to help remake Nigeria, and put her on the path of peaceful coexistence and rapid economic and technological development. He is a tested and astute political juggernaut, who has the uncanny ability to manage finances well. More so, Mr. Peter Obi’s possession of leadership qualities, probity, forbearance, humility,  and fealty will enable him to navigate Nigeria across the tempestuous waters of national disunity and economic and technological backwardness if he becomes the president of Nigeria. A great majority of people, who belong to diverse ethnic groups and profess different religious faiths are rallying support for his presidential bid. Such is Obi’s appeal. Thankfully, now, he has pitched his tent with the Labour Party for the realization of his political goal. His presidential bid will, certainly, fly considering the massive support and following he enjoys on line and during his physical meetings with the people. If Mr. Peter Obi becomes the president of Nigeria, he will fix our problem of infrastructural deficit, unite the peoples of Nigeria, work for our country’s economic growth, and tackle the problem of technological backwardness. Okoye writes from Uruowulu-Obosi Anambra State