* Says NAF has justified govt’s investment in last seven years Deji Elumoye President Muhammadu Buhari has charged the military and security agencies to ensure a secure and prosperous Nigeria as the nation prepares for the general election in 2023.Speaking in Kano Monday at a ceremonial parade to commemorate the 58th Anniversary of the Nigerian Air Force (NAF), the president tasked the security agencies to remain committed, steadfast and resolute as government forges ahead to achieving a secure, peaceful and more prosperous Nigeria.While praising the Minister of Defence, the Chief of the Defence Staff, the Service Chiefs, as well as the leadership of the security agencies for doing their jobs well, President Buhari particularly lauded the Chief of the Air Staff, officers, airmen, airwomen and civilian staff of the air force for the good work they are doing to support government’s defence and security policies as well as the high level of discipline, loyalty to the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and support of democratic values.The president also had kind words for the Nigerian Air Force for living up to its constitutional responsibilities of securing the nation, and in the process, justifying the investments of the government of the day in the force. According to him, the Air Force had transformed into a formidable entity, ready to confront immediate and future challenges. He said: “It gives me great pleasure to be here to felicitate with you on the Nigerian Air Force 58th Anniversary Celebration. This is particularly because the Nigerian Air Force has over these 58 years transformed to a formidable and resilient air force that is positioned to effectively tackle both contemporary and future security challenges. “This adaptability has thus enabled the Service to respond effectively to our dynamic national security challenges. The Nigerian Air Force has been able to meet its constitutional responsibilities thereby justifying the government’s enormous support in the last seven years. I, therefore, congratulate the Chief of the Air Staff, officers and airmen/airwomen as well as civilian staff of the Nigerian Air Force on this occasion of the 58th Anniversary.” President Buhari noted that on assumption of office in 2015, he promised to equip and re-professionalize our armed forces to perform their constitutional responsibilities more effectively, adding that: “We have therefore demonstrated the required political will and leadership, as well as committed resources towards capacity building and re-professionalizing of the armed forces.” According to him, “Today, I can say confidentially that the armed forces have indeed witnessed tremendous improvement in the past seven years. In particular, the provision of modern equipment and personnel motivation through enhanced welfare are also ongoing.” The president noted that the provision of modern equipment and personnel motivation like the Super Tucanos and the Augusta helicopter gunships, among others, had greatly helped turn the tide in the fight against terrorists and other non-state actors, and sustained the Nigerian Air Force. He assured the Air Force that the administration will continue to provide more platforms such as the Beechcraft, some modern helicopter gunships and UAV for it to enable it to man Nigeria’s airspace more effectively.  “Be rest assured that as a government, we are willing to do even more to ensure the provision of the requisite support and encouragement to overcome various security challenges,” he further said.