 Okon Bassey in Uyo A combined team of security operatives has raided kidnappers’ hideout in Akwa Ibom State where a notorious kingpin and gang leader, Otobong Moses (alias Otoabasi), was neutralised while kidnapped victims were rescued. The team of the security forces that embarked on the raid comprised troops of 2 Brigade of Nigerian Army, the Nigerian Police, Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), as well as other security agencies. The Assistant Director, Army Public Relations, 2 Brigade, Capt. Samuel Akari, disclosed this to journalists in Uyo, the Akwa Ibom State capital, after the raid in Obon Ebot in Etim Ekpo Local Government Area of the state. According to Akari, during the invasion of the area, the troops arrested three of the  accomplices and rescued two kidnapped victims. He listed items recovered in the raid to include one submachine gun and magazine; 67 rounds of 9mm ammunition; two motorcycles, 16 mobile phones, one AK-47 rifle magazine with 30 rounds of 7.62mm special ammunition and nine machetes. Other items recovered were two military monkey jackets; one helmet strapped with military camouflage uniform; two pairs of military camouflage uniform; one military police beret; one police camouflage face cap; one military pull over; ATM card; two television sets; a standing fan; decoder, and four power generator. According to Akari, “In line with operational directives of the Chief of Army Staff (COAS) and the Akwa Ibom State Government, troops of 2 Brigade, Nigerian Army, in conjunction with the Nigerian Police, Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps as well as other security agencies raided a well-known kidnappers’ hideout. “The raid operation was as a result of a sustained surveillance on the activities of the notorious kingpin and his syndicate. “The first phase of the operations was conducted on May 12, and during the operations, troops raided the criminals hideout, but on sighting the troops, the criminals abandoned their hideout and fled. “The gallant troops rescued the kidnapped victims and arrested two collaborators of the criminal kingpin while the shrine, hideout and assorted charms were set ablaze by the troops. “Further investigation revealed that the criminal gang has been terrorising the locals, kidnapping, killing and burying their victims, who do not do their biddings in shallow graves in the general area.” He urged residents of the community to return to their homes and continue with their businesses as the security agencies would be on surveillance to ensure peace returns to the community. Akari added that: “The good people of Etim Ekpo, Ukanafun LGAs and indeed the entire Akwa Ibom State are enjoined to go about their lawful businesses. “However, those who are bent on disturbing the peace enjoyed in the state are advised to desist or prepare to face the wrath of the law.”