 Olusegun Samuel in Yenagoa The Bayelsa State Government has directed the suspension of all meetings involving the Community Development Committee, Chiefs’ Council, youths, and women groups in Otuogori Community in Ogbia Local Government Area of the state. It also directed the state Commissioner of Police, Mr. Ben Okolo, to deploy anti-riot police operatives to the community as part of measures to forestall the breakdown of law and order in the area. These directives were given by the Bayelsa State Deputy Governor, Senator Lawrence Ewhrudjakpo, at a meeting with some stakeholders of Otuogori Community in the Government House, Yenagoa. In a statement issued by the Senior Special Assistant to the Deputy Governor on Media, Mr. Doubara Atasi, on Wednesday, Senator Ewhrudjakpo warned that on no account should any person or group of persons tamper with the bank’s accounts of Otuogori until normalcy is fully restored in the community. Consequently, the state government has constituted a seven-man conflict resolution committee to look into the festering leadership crisis in Otuogori community. The Committee, which is chaired by the Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, Mr. Biriyai Dambo (SAN), is to look into the immediate and remote causes of the leadership tussle, make recommendations and submit its findings to the government within two weeks. Speaking shortly after setting up the Committee, Senator Ewhrudjakpo restated that government would not tolerate actions that would destroy the prevailing peace in any part of the state. He emphasised the need for communities to be guided by the provisions of the state chieftaincy law on succession or election of their paramount rulers to avoid the wrath of the government. Ewhrudjakpo, who urged the people to embrace love and peace, warned that henceforth, nobody should parade himself as a paramount ruler or CDC chairman of Otuogori community until new leadership is duly instituted. His words: “Don’t allow chieftaincy issues to tear your community apart. As a government, we will not allow any crisis in any community. All that had transpired in your community in recent times and even here is illegality upon illegality. “The role of CDCs and that of chief’s councils is clearly spelled out in the Chieftaincy Law of Bayelsa State. Nobody should mix the two together. “Everybody should live peacefully in that community (Otuogori) until the committee finishes their work and we all work together to put in place a new leadership.” Members of the seven-man committee included the Commissioner for Local Government, Chieftaincy and Community Development, Mr. Thompson Amule; the State Commissioner of Police, CP. Nebolisa Ben Okolo, and the Chairman of Ogbia Local Government Area, Mr. Ebinyon Turner. Others are the Special Adviser to the Governor on Security, CP. Akpoebi Agberebi (Rtd.), the Technical Adviser on Chieftaincy Matters, Mr. Douye Naingba as well as the Technical Adviser on Conflict Resolution, Mr. Boma Spero-Jack.