 Okon Bassey in Uyo An All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship aspirant in Akwa Ibom State, Professor Chris Ekong, has stated that there is no economic plan for the state despite its potential. Ekong, who is a Professor of Economics, regretted that over 52 percent of the youth population in the state is unemployed, describing industries embarked upon by the present administration in the state as phony and overrated. Speaking with journalists in Uyo at the weekend, the governorship hopeful challenged the state government to publish the equity share and Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) from the acclaimed industries. “There is a difference between an industry and a shop. What we are witnessing in this state is very heartbreaking. “Industry is not about open today for groundbreaking and closing tomorrow. If they are sincere, they should tell us their equity participation, how many people they employed, their turnovers, and where they sell the products. “Even the recently inaugurated coconut Refinery in Akwa Ibom State has no equity participation. If it has let them show us. How can they plant on salty soil? I don’t know who gave them such an idea.” Ekong maintained that his emergence is to redeem the state by righting all the wrongs against the people of the state in all sectors of the economy. He said: “A deep look through the economy of Akwa Ibom State over the last seven years indicates serious misalignments that have veered the economy off its gauge. “To return the state economy to the standard gauge that was designed for it by early patriots and visionaries, very serious and strategic retooling and realignment must be undertaken. “To achieve the strategic retooling and realignment of the Akwa Ibom State economy, a cocktail of strategic economic policies that will seek to promote a market-based economy that is propelled by the public (government) will be adopted.” In the area of industrialisation, Ekong noted that his government would particularly focus on raising feasible industries and no more lip service to the people. “I will encourage cottage industries by working with and emboldening known local technologies with understandable technological augmentation to increase output and efficiency while reducing input cost and man-hours used in production,” he stated.