 Kuni Tyessi in Abuja Operators of computer-based test centres (CBT) have called on the management of the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) to increase its current payment, noting that N1,000 per candidate is grossly inadequate in present day economic realities. They also called on the Board to look into the impossibility of using one sim for user and candidate registration, emphasising that such has been difficult to convert, noting that several students have been affected and couldn’t write the examinations. Proprietor of Unity International Schools, Dr. David Oyetunji, made the call on the second day of the commencement of the national examination for entry into the country’s tertiary institutions. He said the exam body has pegged a blanket amount and has not put into consideration the cost of diesel, maintenance of computers and generating sets, which he said must be serviced and would need replacement after 3 to 4 years of usage. In order to be on the same page with the operators, Oyetunji, who remarked that so far, there has been no case of impersonation, examination malpractice and systems breakdown among other possible challenges at the centre, said the Board needs to send its accountants and statisticians to the field for an on-the-spot assessment of the realities. According to him, “The payment of JAMB operators of CBT centres has to be adjusted. Look at how much diesel is cost per litre? The payment should not be made static; it should vary in accordance with what is the rate in the system. “If some people are running at a loss, at the end of the day, they will be frustrated. Whatever systems you buy, give them three to four years, they’ll be outdated. If maintenance cost is high, then definitely they can’t meet up. “We are using generator because solar is not allowed. Generator will require money for more maintenance cost after three to four years. So, if this is not factored into consideration, then definitely there will be no profit in it. So the N1,000 they’re paying is really low. “When it comes to registration, they made a blanket position that they must have 20 registration points per centre minimum. With this, JAMB is not putting into consideration how many candidates are coming per day. What if you have only 40 candidates who are coming per day, and they are paying only N700 for a candidate? That N700, consider the light it’s charging and other things. He said the running of diesel for 5 to 7 hours has not been funny, adding that every Nigerian is also facing the hardship of the moment.