 As the race for who succeeds Governor, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi gathers steam, politicians in Enugu State have thrown their weights behind the governor to decide but pointed out that among those that had indicated interest, Dr. Peter Mbah was most suited to sustain the developmental stride. This was contained in a statement by a social commentator and political analyst, Dr. Hippolytus Onah who submitted that the private sector experience of the contestant added to his global exposures were the qualities needed to sustain the strides already ensuring development in the state. Onah, who is the head of Enugu-based ‘Justice and Equity Club’ while commending the inclusive politics of Ugwuanyi which had engendered peace in the state reasoned that taking his style of leadership into consideration, he was not likely going to choose any successor lacking in qualities that would move the state forward. “In the last few days, the race has become fully heated as the aspirants, groups and all stakeholders stake their claim to either embrace or kick against what is generally seen as Enugu’s politics of peace and inclusion of Governor Ugwuanyi. “While it was reported during the week that a former Deputy President of Senate, Ike Ekweremadu, an aspirant for the ticket and his supporters have vowed to stop Ugwuanyi from pursuing his succession plan, I fully in support of the incumbent Governor’s choice of would-be successor come 2023. “Going into the primaries slated for May 23, Mbah has the best choice written all over him. It is strongly believed other aspirants in the Enugu governorship race know and share one fact quietly in their hearts: that Peter Mbah is authentic – very authentic leader in his aspiration to govern the state. Mbah sets out to become the most genuine leader to transit from a very successful Boardroom leader to a political leader, and is set to replicate his private sector feats in the service of his Enugu people. “As a candidate, the markets favour Peter Mbah. With no baggage of any sort, the ticket appears to be Mbah’s to lose,” he said. Also lending his voice on the same issue, Chief Michael Udeh, a veteran politician believes that “It’s almost impossible to think that others in the race with him will not try to hit him with some real and imagined dirt- if only to drag him to the mud. They have done it all, but failed. Issues that came up in the line of business in the past were promptly dealt with and the very best of clean bill were presented to Mbah and his company. “Mbah who packs executive degrees and programmes from leading business schools across the world-from Harvard Business School, IESE Business School, Barcelona, Lagos Business School, Said Business School and Stanford Business School among others, Mbah has it all. “As a very successful businessman, Mbah provided humanity platforms for actualisation through numerous businesses which cut across oil and Gas, Properties and hospitality further laying foundations for posterity.” According to him, “Governor of Enugu State, Ugwuanyi believes that the power sharing arrangement, which has made elections less rancorous and divisive in Enugu State should be sustained. “Interestingly, Enugu East has a number of prominent leaders and former governors, including Chief Jim Nwobodo, who governed the greater old Anambra State and Senator Chimaroke Nnamani, who began the relay in the present dispensation in 1999.” The rotational baton between the zones they insisted had never been broken while political gladiators from the state even in different political parties have backed the continuation of the power sharing formula which shows it is the turn of Enugu East to produce the governor of the state and Ugwuanyi’s successor.