 Raheem Akingbolu Former banker and presidential aspirant on the platform of the People’s Democratic Party, PDP, Mohammed Hayatu-Deen, has called on Kaduna State delegates to the forthcoming PDP presidential primaries not to be emotional in their choice; adding that he is in the race to work for the Nigerian people. This was even as former Vice President Namadi Sambo alluded to Hayatudeen’s dedication, diligence and integrity. Hayatu-deen stated this during an interactive session with PDP delegates from the state over the weekend. He promised that if the delegates gave him their votes, he would serve the nation with all his heart and might. “I make a solemn pledge that if I have your votes, I will keep my promise to do everything to work for Nigeria and the Nigerian people,” Hayatu-deen said. Speaking during the event, formee governor of Kaduna State, Mohammed Makarfi, said Hayatu-Deen is one of the party’s leading presidential aspirants who has spent his life living and working in Nigeria. “He is a dedicated and a balanced person who carries Nigeria in his heart and I know he will do well. In assessing him, his pedigree speaks for itself. I am sure the coordinators will do well for him and Kaduna state. We will do everything for PDP’s success,” Makarfi said. The Kaduna State Chairman of the PDP, Hon. Felix Hassan Hyat, while speaking during the session said Mohammed Hayatu-Deen is one of the most qualified candidates the party has. He added that the Kaduna State PDP was aware of who he was and he has demonstrated with the visit. “He is a sound, knowledgeable leader who has achieved a lot. We join our leader, His Excellency, Sen Ahmed Makarfi, in recognising your dexterity and success. If you have succeeded in your businesses, you will succeed in leading the country. He that is faithful in little will be faithful in much. We join your supporters and well-wishers to pray that God gives you to us as the leader of our nation,” Hyat stated. Speaking about Hayatu-deen during a courtesy visit to his residence, former Vice President Namadi Sambo said he had known Hayatu-Deen since the his days at the New Nigeria Development Corporation, where he (Hayatu-Deen) became managing director and CEO at age of 30. He added that the nation would benefit from his diligence and dedication if given the opportunity to serve at the highest level.