 The national finals of the famed World Corporate Golf Challenge (WCGC) came to a thrilling end at the Lakowe Lakes Golf and Country Estate in Lagos on Sunday with team Dulux Paint emerging the overall winner. Represented by Peter Eben-Spiff and Vitus Ezenwa, the duo grossed a total of 45 stable-ford points to win the competition by 1 point over the hard-fighting team of Eko Support 1, represented by Okey Ananaba and Remi Edu at 44 points. The pair of Mohammed Suleiman and Jumai Abdulahi representing NCDMB-3 from IBB International Golf and Country Club, Abuja came third with a score of 41 stable-ford points, beating Chidi Momah and Julius Fadairo who represented Julius Fadairo and Co. on countback. Completing the top five winners in the keenly contested encounter is the team of Oregon & Omars represented by Abiye Amakri and Peter Omoruaye. Though the players were originally expected to be scored over 36-holes, the weather disrupted the opening round thereby forcing the organisers to score participants over the closing 18-holes. Satisfied with the outcome of the competition, the Chief Executive Officer of Falcon Golf Development Company, Remi Olukoya expressed appreciation to the players and attendees, saying he will continue to work to improve on the quality of the tournament. He also thanked the sponsors for their support saying their backing would bolster the quality of the tournament. “Falcon Golf Development company would like to express our appreciation to NCDMB for their support over the years. We also express our gratitude towards Pepsi, Guinness, Banwo & Ighodalo, Henley & Partners, First E&P, OVH Energy,  PwC, Geregu Power, Dulux Paints, Dradrock Real Estate, Mixta Africa, Mainstream Power, Lagoon Hospital,  Rwanda Airlines, Singleton, 2sure, Dubic Malt, Captain Morgan, DO Bowls & Kia Motors for the success of this event,” he said. For winning the competition, team Dulux will be sponsored to participate in the World Finals of WCGC at the Island of Tenerife, Spain in October 17-21, 2022. Supporters are welcome to participate in the guest event and can contact Falcon Golf Development Company by email to reserve a spot.