 Udora Orizu writes that the increasing attacks and mindless killings by unknown gunmen in Anambra State calls for drastic action by the state government and security agencies to rid the state of criminal elements causing mayhem Nigeria as a whole is believed to be under siege, as the security situation in the country worsens everyday. In the South-east, security has deteriorated in recent times with attacks by unknown gunmen reported almost everyday across the region. Anambra State seems to have witnessed most of the worst attacks as hardly a day passes without the unknown gunmen causing havoc in different parts of the state. In 2021, the state’s security architecture was put to the test by a surge of insecurity that shook its core. On March 17, former Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Professor Charles Chukwuma Soludo was sworn-in as the Governor of Anambra State. During his inauguration, Soludo vowed to fight all forms of criminality in the state. The Governor, thereafter, called for dialogue with the IPOB group and unknown gunmen and declared an end to the sit-at-home order in the state. However residents have continued to obey the Monday sit-at-home order in the state and across the region, mostly out of fear. The attacks by the gunmen increased in the state shortly after Soludo’s announcement of an end to the sit-at-home order. While the Federal Government has accused IPOB of being responsible for the deadly attacks in the region, the group has repeatedly denied its involvement in the attacks. The separatist group whose leader Nnamdi Kanu, is currently being detained in Abuja where he is facing trial for treason, is leading agitation for an independent state of Biafra to be carved out from the South-east and some parts of South-south Nigeria. Aside secessionist agitations, the use of targeted assassinations to eliminate opponents or to settle political scores before, during or after elections has added a dangerous dimension to the problem. It is believed that some Anambra politicians are not united, and rival politicians use these criminal elements to their benefit. For many months, these unknown gunmen have turned the once peaceful state into a killing field. Recent Massacres In the last two weeks, Anambra has witnessed unimaginable blood shed in various communities of the state. Gunmen on the evening of May 16 killed four members of a vigilante group in Awka, the state capital. The police spokesperson Tochukwu Ikenga, in a statement said that the police responded to a distress call on the attack on the vigilante members. “Unfortunately, during the encounter (with the gunmen), four vigilante operatives sustained fatal wounds.” He said Ikenga said there was a shootout between the gunmen and the police operatives who responded to the distress call. He said the gunmen, overpowered by the police operatives, fled the scene and abandoned a brown Lexus SUV, black Toyota Corolla and brown Mercedes Benz. On May 22 another attack took place at Abatete in Idemili North local government area while another man was killed at Nanka Orumba North local government area. These gunmen also, attacked a police station in Anaku in Ayamelum Local Government Area and set vehicles ablaze. On May 21, a member of the Anambra State House of Assembly, Okechukwu Okoye, who was earlier kidnapped was beheaded. Until his unfortunate kidnap and death, Okoye  represented  Aguata North State Constituency, the same community as the Governor of the state, Prof. Chukwuma Chukwuma Soludo. Soludo, who confirmed his kidnap during the presentation of the 2022 revised budget to the state House of Assembly, regretted his abduction and assured that the lawmaker would be rescued  as security agencies were working round the clock to ensure his release. But his freshly beheaded head was mounted at the Chisco Park in Amichi community, Anambra State on Saturday. In a viral video circulating online, the freshly beheaded head was seen placed in a carton by the roadside with a handwritten note placed by the side. The next day unknown gunmen, alleged to be members of IPOB killed a pregnant woman Harira Jubril, her four children, and six other northerners in Anambra. They were killed at Isulo, Orumba North Local Government Area of the state. There have been other reported attacks including a headless body on Nnobi-Alor-Nkpor road, attack at Onitsha Tollgate, Ogbunike/Nkwelle Junction, attack around Eke Adazi Nnukwu, attack at Ogidi, attack at Aforigwe, Umunnachi. All these dastardly acts happened within 48 hours  these communities. Presidency, NEF, CAN, Others Condemn Orumba Killings Following the gruesome murder of the  pregnant woman, her four children, and six other northerners in Orumba, President Muhammadu Buhari, the Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, Northern Elders Forum (NEF), Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), and African Bar Association (AFBA)  expressed condemnation. The presidency said, in a statement that the security agencies would go after the suspected killers. It said the incident was being investigated to determine its factuality, and warned against any hasty reaction by the public to a viral  video of the said killings being circulated on social media. Recent Efforts by Soludo to Curb the Mayhem Aside tasking security agencies to put all hands on deck at ensuring protection of lives and properties, the Governor since assuming office has tried one way or another to ensure that peace is restored to  the state. On April 7, 2022, he set up a 15-member Committee on Truth, Justice and Peace. This he said is to enable the state government to interface with agitators, so as to allow peace to return. According to a statement signed by the Secretary to the State Government, Prof. Solo Chukwulobelu, the members include: Prof Chidi Odinkalu, Chairman; Ambassador Bianca Ojukwu, Member/Secretary; and  Dr. Joe Nwaorgu, member. The purpose of the committee is to seek a restorative justice approach for truth-telling or real facts, and for the healing of the victims of the violence. It stated that the committee will account for the responsibility and accountability of the actors, conditional mercy for the repentant perpetrators. It will also handle their restitution for certain losses and rehabilitation to allow restoration of peace and justice as well as the promotion of development in the state, and the region/Nigeria. It added that given the cross-border nature of the conflict, the focus goes beyond Anambra, and possibly covers the entire South-east. However, it appears that the initiative was dead on arrival, as the Committee hasn’t really done anything since the announcement was made. Also, on May 15, Soludo visited IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, as part of his ‘wider consultations’ with critical stakeholders to ensure lasting peace and security in the South-east. He said Kanu expressed sadness over the spate of killings and other forms of criminalities in the South-east. According to him, “He was in very high spirits and we had quality and frank discussion in a very convivial atmosphere. He expressed sadness over what he described as ‘sacrilegious killings’ of innocent persons, kidnappings and all forms of criminalities, including the brutal enforcement of the senseless ‘sit-at-home’ perpetuated by sundry groups claiming to be acting for or on behalf of IPOB.” The governor said the IPOB leader promised to ‘personally’ prevail on his followers, through a broadcast, to maintain peace whenever he gets the opportunity to interact with them. More Drastic Action Needed While his efforts is commendable, the state of lawlessness that pervades the state has continued. It is obligatory on the state government to secure the lives and property of Nigerians. The police in Anambra must tackle these criminals and ensure that these crimes are curbed or brought to an end. Because if nothing is done to stem the tide of insecurity in Anambra, indigenes might resort to self help and it may also lead to renewed call for emergency rule in the state. QUOTE In the last two weeks, Anambra has witnessed unimaginable blood shed in various communities of the state. Gunmen on the evening of May 16 killed four members of a vigilante group in Awka, the state capital