 Emma Okonji In order to enhance the Nigeria’s Aquaculture sector, the Norwegian Seafood Council has trained fishery officers and stakeholders in aquaculture on processing and export of fish from Nigeria. The training, which took place in Lagos recently, is part of the Norwegian government’s contribution towards boosting the country’s aquaculture sector. In his welcome address during the training session, the Norwegian Ambassador to Nigeria, Mr. Knut Leon, said the capacity building would boost the bilateral trade relations between Norway and Nigeria. According to Leon, “Stockfish is an extremely important part of our bilateral relations, trade and history. For Nigerians, it is an important part of our food culture and a really important source of our culture. “Today, we will move a step forward to bring capacity building and training to the Nigerian fish industry. “We have brought a fantastic team from Norway to train fish farmers and stakeholders in the sector. We are confident that you will find their inputs valuable. “Stockfish trade has created jobs in Nigeria. It is a win-win situation and we will continue to fight to remove the barriers on the path of this important trade. “This cannot be a one-way thing, as we appeal to the Federal Government and the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to do their part in the equation. “There must be cooperation between the two nations to benefit all sides.” The Director-General, Africa, Norwegian Seafood Council, Mr. Trond Kostweit, said in order to grow the Nigerian fish sector, aquaculture would be a priority. “I am very happy to be part of today’s capacity building and training, we have been talking about for a while and I am absolutely sure it will be valuable to the Nigerian fish industry. “Norway is a seafood nation and we started exporting fish since 1800s, we have gathered a lot of experience from fishery and we are very proud of our production. “In order to grow any fish industry, we must bank on fish farming to boost productivity. We want Nigeria to benefit from our experience and success in aquaculture. “We have a lot of experience and technology to share at the training this week and we are sure it will benefit Nigeria as a country and the fish farming industry,” Kostweit said. In his welcome address, the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development (FMARD), Dr. Mahmood Abubakar, commended the Norwegian Seafood Council for the initiative. Abubakar, who was represented by the the Director, Fisheries and Aquaculture, Mr. Imeh Umeh, said the training would help to harness the huge potential in fishery and aquaculture.