 *Bemoans spate of banditry in North-west Francis Sardauna in Katsina An All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential aspirant and President of the Senate, Ahmed Lawan, has said that the Senate will ensure that the nation’s security agencies account for the resources given to them to tackle security challenges besetting the country. He explained that the ninth Senate under his watch would continue to hold the country’s security architecture accountable as long as insecurity persists in the country. He said the federal government had provided enough resources to security agencies to tackle banditry and other security challenges in the country “but we have not achieved the result that we want to achieve”. While addressing delegates and leaders of the APC in Katsina ahead of the party’s presidential primary, Lawan described the security situation in the North-west as worrisome despite efforts by the government to end the scenario. He said: “We have done a lot in terms of providing resources for our security agencies to fight banditry and other security issues but we have not achieved the kind of result that we want to achieve. “We will continue to provide more resources and continue to hold our security agencies responsible for the resources we give them for as long as the insecurity persists.” According to him, “Before, we in the north were living in peace more than any other region of the country but today we are bedevilled with insecurity. We were feeding the country but today we can’t, we must restore security in our country.” He said the North-west as an agrarian region, if properly secured, can provide adequate food that could feed the entire nation and generate employment opportunities for the youths, create wealth for the country and bring stability. He applauded President Muhammudu Buhari for returning normalcy to the North-east, saying: “Unfortunately, we have security issues especially in the North-west and other parts of the country. “Like we dealt with Boko Haram, by the grace of God, we will finish banditry in the North-western part of Nigeria. “All that we require is commitment, sincerity of purpose and to ensure that we are united in fighting banditry in the North-west and other security challenges across the country.” Lawan, however, added that his 23 years at the National Assembly, beginning from the House of Representatives, has equipped him with the requisite experience and capacity to pilot the affairs of the country as president. He urged the delegates and other APC members in Katsina to support his presidential aspiration, adding that: “Though I am from Yobe State, Katsina is home to my people as we have some historical connections as confirmed by the Emir of Katsina.” The Senate President assured the delegates that if given the opportunity to govern Nigeria, he would ensure that the necessary resources were  put in place to secure the country and its citizens.