 Udora Orizu in Abuja The Chairman of the House of Representatives Committee on Appropriations, Hon. Muktar Aliyu Betara has emerged unopposed the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), for Biu, Bayo, Kwaya/Kusar and Shani Federal Constituency of Borno State ahead of the 2023 National Assembly polls. Betara, who recently received overwhelming support from the people of his constituency, who contributed money to purchase the nomination and expression of interest form for him is coming back to the House for the fifth term unopposed.The primary which took place at the  Local government Areas featured a massive turnout of supporters who came to witness the formality of their illustrious son picking the ticket for the fifth without any challenger. All the delegates from his four Local Government Areas making up the federal constituency affirmed his nomination through the ballot monitored by INEC and APC officials.The breakdown of the result announced by the Returning Officer, Dr. Amadu Umar Babaye, from the National working Committee of APC states, “Shani Total number of vote is 55, Accredited number of votes is 55, valid Vote cast is 5. Bayo Total number of vote is 50, Accredited number of vote is 50, Valid Vote cast is 50. Kwaya Total number of vote is 50, Accredited number of vote is 44, valid Vote cast is 38, invalid vote is 6 and Biu Total number of vote is 55 Accredited number of vote is 55 valid Vote cast is 55. Rt Hon Muktar Betara Aliyu pulled 194 vote.”Betara’s constituents who were present at the venue were full of excitement as they celebrated with the lawmaker, just as majority of the women were heard chanting solidarity song “Say Betara”, “Say Betara.” In his acceptance speech, the lawmaker thanked his constituents for the show of love He said” I am happy my people want me back because i am always on ground for them. This has shown how much they appreciate my effort and i will keep doing more for them. I want to use this medium to thank everyone for believing in me”, together we will work to achieve  goals for the good of our Constituents.”