 James Emejo No fewer than 958 vulnerable farmers in Kogi and Niger States have accessed agro-inputs to sustain rice production in order to enhance food security in the country in the aftermath of the COVID-19 pandemic. The intervention is made possible through the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) COVID-19 Rural Poor Stimulus Facility grant. Speaking at the flag-off of the programme in the states, the acting National Programme Coordinator, FGN/IFAD Value Chain Development Programme, Dr. Fatima Aliyu, said the grant is meant for vulnerable farmers in VCDP states including Enugu, Kogi, Nasarawa, Anambra, Benue, Niger, Taraba and Ebonyi, to sustain production and help them recover more quickly from the impact of the pandemic. She said the project aims to improve the incomes and food security of poor rural households engaged in the production, processing and marketing of rice and cassava on a sustainable basis. She noted that in early 2020, there was an outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic which affected the world and disrupted farming activities and food systems. As a result, to cushion the effect of the pandemic on farmers, IFAD gave a grant tagged Rural Poor Stimulus Facility (RPSF) to VCDP through the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. Through the RPSF, 2,793 vulnerable farmers will receive agro-inputs to support their farming activities. These inputs distributed free of charge consist of 40kg of certified rice seeds, two liters of herbicides,  two bags of NPK and one bag of Urea fertilizers. Aliyu said 560 farmers benefitted from the intervention in Kogi including 398 in Niger. The VCDP will also provide extension services to targeted farmers who will receive training on good practices in the application of fertilizers and agro-chemicals as well as farm management and climate-smart agriculture. According to the national coordinator, to enhance transparency in the process, the programme had engaged International Fertilizer Development Centre (IFDC) for the effective management of the input – supply, redemption and delivery in all the nine states through the voucher input redemption system. She further pledged an unwavering collaboration with the states to improve the livelihoods and income of farmers and implore them to make judicious use of the inputs. She added, “The inputs are not meant to be sold out but for you to use them on your farms. We are going to support you with extension services and monitor your progress to ensure you have better yields to enhance your food security and incomes and ultimately your standard of living.” She also appreciated the support of IFAD in the country’s quest to improve the livelihoods of smallholder farmers and specifically to mitigate the effects of COVID-19 pandemic on the agricultural sector particularly for VCDP farmers.