 Fidelis David in Akure The Governor of Sokoto State and Presidential Aspirant in the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP),  Mr. Aminu Tambuwal, yesterday faulted former President Goodluck Jonathan for rejecting the amendment of the country’s constitution that would have restructured the country. Tambuwal also said that Jonathan should have allowed the proper reform of the electoral system. The former Speaker of the House of  Representative spoke in Akure, Ondo State capital while canvassing for votes from the state’s delegates to the PDP’s presidential primary. He said that restructuring would have helped to deepen the nation’s democracy and tackle the various challenges, particularly insecurity, bedeviling the country would have been surmounted if Nigeria had been restructured. He said: “I understand the debate about restructuring, the fiscal federalism, and the devolution of power. I know all of these issues and understand them very well. “As Speaker of the House of Representatives, we attempted but unfortunately former President Goodluck Jonathan did not sign that constitutional amendment that could have possibly address some of these challenges being raised in terms of restructuring, devolution of power among others.” Tambuwal observed that the current government of the All Progressives Congress, APC, led by President Muhammadu Buhari, had no road map for the progress of the country at its inception. He explained that his experience as a federal lawmaker, in the House of Representatives, before becoming a governor, had shown him that Nigeria needed a leader that could provide practical solutions to the nation’s economic woes. The PDP, according to him, is the right choice for the country in the 2023 general election, adding that he is neither too young nor too old to run for the office of the President. He urged the PDP delegates to vote their conscience in the forthcoming primaries by supporting an electable candidate, and also to shun financial gains and avoid being influenced. “So, I guarantee you that in me, you would have a president who can communicate, understand issues, concerning the security of our country, and its development. “I can assure you that when given the mandate, we shall crash the APC. I need, you to partner with me. Let us collectively work together for the prosperity of our party to ensure that we get this ticket and work and also win the election. “When we win the election, here in Ondo State, we will have the government of PDP in this state. We shall also begin the process of shunning practical, implementable administrative policies that would support our people. We shall bring about and return old good days,” Tambuwal added.