 Ferdinand Ekechukwu Highly anticipated biopic of former Nigerian Head of State, Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida has been launched on Amazon Prime. Titled, “Badamasi: Portrait of a General”, the Obi Emelonye directorial appeared on the streamer on May 18, months after an historic world premiere at the Cineworld Cinema 02 Arena, London. And almost three years after its anticipated theatrical release. The film witnessed multiple delays influenced by the Nigerian National Film and Video Censors Board (NFVCB) which also led to a forced postponement of its cinema release originally slated for November 29, 2019. The delayed release of ‘Badamasi’ in cinemas was attributed to some powerful figures that would prefer it covered. In 2020, Emelonye in an exclusive interview revealed that the ex-head of state granted him the rights to make the film after a four-year wait. Shot in 2018, in Lagos, Minna, Abuja and the University of Nigeria, Nsukka campus, where the UK-based filmmaker graduated some 30 years ago, the IBB biopic takes a look at the life of Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida. It stars Enyinna Nwigwe in the lead role, alongside a stellar cast such as Charles Inojie, Sani Danja, Yakubu Mohammed, Okey Bakassi, Kalu Ikeagwu, Julius Agwu and Erick Didie. The IBB biopic follows the life of the former military Head of State and portrayed him as a man with a deep sense of patriotism amid his human flaws. In a remark following his earlier posts, the multiple-award-winning filmmaker said: “Watch General Ibrahim Babangida’s journey up the ladder of life from an orphan to President (plus everything in between) and back down by ‘stepping aside.’” Confirming the launch of the biopic on the Amazon Prime streaming platform, Emelonye wrote on his Instagram page: “Yesss! It’s out! I am grateful to all who made this possible. “Almighty God for making a way through the barricade. Gen. Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida (rtd.) for letting me touch the hem of his agbada. My executive producers for believing and being patient. My family for supporting. My cast and crew for giving blood, tears and sweat. My distributors – FilmOne and Evrit for staying the course. You… yes you out there for the time to watch. God bless you all.”