 Victor Ogunje in Ado Ekiti Former Ekiti State Governor, Segun Oni, has warned the state Governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, against engaging in what he described as ‘illegal’ recruitment of workers at the twilight of his tenure. He accused the governor of secretly embarking on a recruitment exercise into the state civil and local government services without recourse to due process. The spokesman of a pro-Oni group, Ekiti Build Back Better, Idowu Adelusi, in Ado Ekiti yesterday alleged that Fayemi is distributing a “hurriedly and haphazardly” prepared and processed employment letters without application forms, examinations, and interviews recently. “As a matter of fact, most of those given this emergency letters of appointment by the Local Government Service Commission are not Ekiti indigenes, and probably being recruited to perpetrate the APC rigging plan. “However, the Ekiti people are watching with keen interest and monitoring activities of the new recruits.” Oni assured the state that if he becomes the governor, as a humanist and friend of the workers, he will not sack any worker who is qualified and properly recruited according to the extant rules and regulations. He also added that he would reinstate the 700 sacked workers of the Ekiti State University(EKSU) which the Fayemi administration has refused to return to work despite the court order. However, in his response,  the APC state Publicity Secretary, Segun Dipe, said there is no doubt that Oni and his fellow “horse riders” are already “tired, frustrated and deserve to be angry” with those whom he said are prepared to prevent him from winning the June 18 poll. He said: “The journey is too long for the fainthearted, particularly a party that had never journeyed that far in the history of the state election or any anywhere in the country to boot. “Even when Segun Oni attempted it in the past on the train of another party, he had to cheat his way through and only scored a pyrrhic victory, which he was made to drop in a disgraceful manner. “Our sympathy goes to Segun Oni, who is fast losing empathy and perspective, just gasping for breath. Whatever the little integrity he had left before forcing his way into the governorship race, has been totally eroded along the way, and now leaving him with a bloated ego. “Regarding their litany of unsubstantiated attacks against their campaign team, we would advise SDP to also take the matter up with the appropriate authority, and stop crying like a baby.”