 Chief Executive Officer/Executive Vice Chairman, Fine and Country West Africa, Udo Okonjo, has been accepted into the Forbes Business Council, the foremost growth and networking organisation for successful business owners and leaders worldwide. Forbes Business Council is an invitation-only community for successful business owners and leaders. In a statement yesterday, Okonjo was vetted and selected by a review committee based on the depth and diversity of her experience. The statement said criteria for acceptance “include a track record of successfully impacting business growth metrics, as well as personal and professional achievements and honours. “We are honoured to welcome Udo Okonjo into the community,” said Scott Gerber, founder of Forbes Councils, the collective that includes Forbes Business Council. “Our mission with Forbes Councils is to bring together proven leaders from every industry, creating a curated, social capital-driven network that helps every member grow professionally and make an even greater impact on the business world.” As an accepted member of the Forbes Council, Udo has access to a variety of exclusive opportunities designed to help her continue to remain an impactful and influential global business leader. She will connect and collaborate with other respected local leaders in a private forum and at members-only events. Udo will also be invited to work with a professional editorial team to share her expert insights in original business articles on Forbes.com, and to contribute to published Q&A panels alongside other experts. Finally, Udo Maryanne Okonjo will benefit from exclusive access to vetted business service partners, membership-branded marketing collateral, and the high-touch support of the Forbes Councils member concierge team. “I am truly delighted to be joining this formidable platform of highly respected global leaders. Fine and Country West Africa’s corporate participation and my personal contribution are aligned with our leadership values and vision of expanding knowledge especially in the areas of Business Development and Brand Marketing, along with High Impact Entrepreneurship and Business Leadership globally.” Forbes Councils is a collective of invitation-only communities created in partnership with Forbes. In Forbes Councils, exceptional business owners and leaders come together with the people and resources that can help them thrive.