Alex Enumah in Abuja and Blessing Ibunge in Port Harcourt The presidential bid of former Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, is now at risk following the Supreme Court’s ruling yesterday asking him to face probe on alleged N96 billion fraud. A five-man panel of the apex court made the order in a judgment that also saw the dismissal of Amaechi’s appeal against the investigation by the Commission of Inquiry set up by the Rivers State Government to investigate his eight-year tenure as governor of the state. Amaechi had in the appeal sought an order of the apex court prohibiting his successor, Governor Nyesom Wike from investigating his 8-year tenure as governor of the state. But in their ruling the five-man panel of the apex court held that Amaechi’s suit lacked merit and ought to be dismissed and was subsequently dismissed. Justice Adamu Jauro, who read the lead judgment held that the two lower courts – the Court of Appeal and High Court of Rivers State were in order when they dismissed the suit for want of substance and merit. Meanwhile, the apex court has ordered Amaechi to pay a fine of N1 million. Sources told THISDAY last night that following the Supreme Court judgement, the Nyesom Wike-led Rivers State Government was getting set to arraign Amaechi, and Tonye Cole, both whom were indicted by the probe panel. Amaechi did not appear before the Commission of Inquiry headed by Justice George Omekeji to give account of how N96 billion was allegedly withdrawn from the Treasury of the state government and how it was expended. The Commission of Inquiry was inaugurated by Wike to look into the lawful or otherwise of the alleged sales of valuable assets of the state. The listed valuable assets are Omoku Gas Turbine, Afam Gas Turbine, Trans Amadi Gas Turbine, Eleme Gas Turbine, Olympia Hotel and the award of contract for the execution of Mono Rail Project. Wike may file charges against the former Minister of Transportation, Amaechi, following the Supreme Court judgment that dismissed Amaechi’s appeal to frustrate investigation into activities of his administration. In a statement yesterday by his Special Assistant on Media, Kelvin Ebiri, Governor Wike, said the judgement has vindicated the Rivers State government. Wike said leaders of Rivers State will meet to decide on whether to commence criminal prosecution of the immediate former governor of the state, over the alleged sales of some valued state assets and diversion of state funds. The governor said those whose fate will also be decided during the meeting, will include, Mr. Tonye Cole, Sahara Energy Ltd, the APC governorship flag bearer in the state and former Rivers State Commissioner of Transport, George Tolofari. Governor Wike, who spoke during a media parley in Abuja, explained that on his assumption of office in 2015, the state government set up a Judicial Panel of Inquiry to investigate the activities of Amaechi’s administration. “The judicial panel was mandated to investigate the sale of the 150 MegaWatts gas turbine in Omoku, Afam 360 MW Gas Turbine, Trans-Amadi 136 MW Gas Turbine and the 75 MW Gas turbine in Eleme; Monorail Project; the sale of Olympia hotel; and non-execution of the contract for the construction of Justice Karibi-Whyte hospital after the Amaechi administration paid $39.2m to the contractor.” Wike said the judicial panel at the end of its investigation submitted its report and recommendations to the state government. According to him, this necessitated the state government to come up with a White Paper Report. “So many people were indicted by that report and so we didn’t go to court to file charges against those that were indicted because some people went to court, particularly, the former governor, Rotimi Amaechi. And as those who obey the rule of law and  have respect for court, we said we will not take any step further until the court decides. “At the State High Court, the Rivers State Government won. The former governor went to the Court of Appeal, the Rivers State Government won. And then he appealed to the Supreme Court to set aside the recommendations of the Judicial Panel of Inquiry and the White Paper of the government. “To the glory of God, the Supreme Court unanimously dismissed his appeal against the judicial panel of inquiry report and the government White Paper Report.” Wike said the state government has been vindicated by the Supreme Court judgment because those indicted by the Judicial Panel of Inquiry were given the opportunity to defend themselves, but some of them chose not to appear before the panel. “If you see that report, as a Rivers man you will cry. Nobody who loves Rivers State will see that report and will not cry. Now that the Supreme Court has come up with their judgment, the leaders of the State will decide what next step to take. It is not for only me. Yes, I am a governor, I can’t do it alone. If the leaders of the State say we must prosecute them, I have no choice.” He further added: “The money that was collected by  Sahara Energy and Tonye Cole, it is for the leaders of the state to say should we go ahead and file charges against Rotimi Amaechi and his cohorts, or should we allow it to be. It is for the state elders. The state will meet and agree on what next to do. But the point is, let the world know that nobody who will see that report and not be angry.” The Rivers State governor narrated how the sum of $50 million was allegedly diverted from the state account and paid to Sahara Energy for inexplicable reason. According to him, there is no evidence of any transaction indicating that the State is indebted to the company. “What did Sahara Energy do for us? What is the transaction that we paid $50 million for? You said Sahara Energy bought our gas turbines, if they bought our gas turbines, why are we paying them $50 million? Did we borrow money from them and where is the agreement to show we borrowed money from them? Nothing. “People will come out and begin to sing we are innocent. I thank God we have been vindicated. We did the right thing. It is for Rivers people to decide the next line of action. If they decide today that they will  file criminal charges, I have no choice than to direct the Ministry of Justice to file charges against Rotimi Amaechi, Sahara Energy, and Tonye Cole.” The governor said due to the corruption allegation levelled against Amaechi, he was not supposed to be cleared by the Senate to become a minister, but the All Progressives Congress, APC-led federal government prevailed on the lawmakers to gloss over the matter.