 Emma Okonji The Executive Vice Chairman of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), Prof. Umar Garba Danbatta, and the the Managing Director, NIGCOMSAT Ltd, Dr. Abimbola Alale, have congratulated the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Prof. Isa Ali Pantami, on his appointment as the chairman of the 2022 World Summit on Information Society (WSIS) Forum by the International Telecommunication Union (ITU). Danbatta described the choice of the Minister to chair the forum as a worthy recognition of Nigeria’s leadership in the world’s digital economy ecosystem, where Nigeria has continued to hold a front-row seat in the area of information and communication technology (ICT) promotion for driving national development. “On behalf of the Board, management and staff of the Nigerian Communications Commission, I want to express our delight and congratulations to the Hon. Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Prof, Isa Ali Ibrahim Pantami, on his well-deserved appointment by the International Telecommunication Union (ITU) to chair this year’s WSIS Forum. “The appointment did not surprise us at NCC, given the important role the Hon. Ministry has been playing in driving the digital economy policies, the implementation of which by the agencies under his supervision is helping boosting diversifying the nation’s economy,” Danbatta said. Alale, who on behalf of the board members and staff of NIGCOMSAT, expressed joy and satisfaction on the choice of the Minister said this was due to his diligent, hardwork and passion in the Information and Communication Technology (ICT) Industry. According to Alale, there couldn’t have been any better choice to lead the Forum Session recognizing the tremendous impact of Pantami’s leadership in the ICT industry in the country. “Since the his assumption as the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, the focus and direction of the industry on the Nigeria economy has changed to a more fruitful, impactful and growth,” Alale said.