 Segun Awofadeji in Bauchi Air Marshal Saddique Baba Abubakar (rtd) has emerged winner of the All Progressives Congress (APC) gubernatorial ticket in Bauchi State for the 2023 gubernatorial election. Results of the party primaries which lasted throughout the night of Thursday to early Friday morning indicated that Saddique Baba Abubakar, polled a total of 370 votes to defeat eight other aspirants. Senator Haliru Dauda Jika polled 278 votes to come second while Nura Manu Soro polled 269 votes to emerge third, Dr. Musa Babayo came a distant fourth with 70 votes. Others were: Farouk Mustapha who polled 26 votes; Mahmoud Maijama’a 8 votes while Ali Pate did not get any vote. While declaring the results, APC gubernatorial primary election Returning Officer, Ali Sa’ad Birnin Kudu disclosed that a total of 1,060 delegates were registered for the primary while 1,012 actually voted in the primary. He declared that, “In my capacity as the Returning Officer of the APC gubernatorial primary election for Bauchi State and by the powers conferred on me by the constitution of our great party, I hereby declare Ambassador Saddique Baba Abubakar as the winner of the APC gubernatorial primary election and is hereby declared as the APC gubernatorial candidate for 2023 general elections.” He described the exercise as a family affair therefore no Victor no vanquished stressing that with the contest over, members of the APC must come together, form a formidable front to be able to face and defeat the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state. According to him, “I have known Bauchi people to be committed and dedicated to a purpose, they go all out to get what they want. I want you to support the winner so that the APC will win the gubernatorial election come 2023.” In his acceptance speech, Ambassador Abubakar described his victory for all because according to him, “we  are all involved in the process and we must continue to be together.” He commended the delegates for their patience and commitment to his cause stressing that there is a major task ahead in 2023 which must be won when all hands are put on deck. Abubakar then commended the APC leadership in Bauchi State for allowing a level playing fields for all the aspirants describing the exercise as free and fair. Earlier in his remarks, Chairman of APC in Bauchi State, Babayo Aliyu Misau, commended the delegates for patience and commitment saying that the result has demonstrated their wish urging them to work for the victory of the party in the general elections in 2023.