FAIRGROUND  Azuka Ogujiuba It was an exquisite intimate affair as Folashade Balogun, founder and Creative Director of House of Sota celebrated Black History with the recent launch of her latest collections – Sota Diverse – in Lagos. Hosted by the delectable Zainab Balogun rocking a House of Sota piece, the event had in attendance dignitaries including former Minister  of State for Mines and Steel Development, Uchechukwu Ugah, Christine Ibori, HRM Oba Saheed Ademola Elegushi, Lisa Masillon, Kendra Miller and other stylish guests. It kicked off with a welcome address, followed by a documentary showing the brands story in between the spectacular runway shows, an electrifying dance performance, a vivacious DJ and all-round vibes. There were cocktails, shopping and the high point of the night was when Mrs Balogun gave an emotional vote of thanks to her family and friends for their constant support over the years. She also presented an award to Christine Ibori for her loyalty to the brand over the years. House of Sota is an international fashion brand that incorporates African fabrics with contemporary fashion. The company was launched in 2016 with the aim of promoting African clothing globally. The pieces are enticed by the richness in colour, combined with texture of such artifacts in their raw form and adding a contemporary twist, thereby making it fresh and modern for clients both at home and abroad. Black History Month is an opportunity to understand Black histories, going beyond stories of racism and slavery to spotlight Black achievements. It is a month-long observance in the US and Canada that provides a fresh reminder of systemic racism and gives visibility to the people and organisations creating change. Operating out of Lagos and Florida, the brand caters to males and females across borders whose style is sensual, trendy, urban, stylish, versatile, and unafraid of clothing designed with a statement. The new collections celebrate the uniqueness of the African culture, hence the opulent burst of colours and prints. Sota Diverse consists of Madiba named after the great Nelson Mandela and Imani meaning Faith or belief. Since 2016, the brand has focused on offering a full spectrum of design-led solutions that allow them to build strong, lasting relationships with customers. Balogun said: “Sota Diverse is a spring/summer collection for 2022. Here, we are redefining who a Sota Woman, Man, Boy and Girl really is. For this collection, we are inspired by the beauty of our African culture, with keen detailing from our artifacts, especially from the ancient Ekiti and Benin Kingdoms. House of Sota is located in Ikeja. It also has Brick and Mortar stores in Owerri and Port-Harcourt, as well as visibility in other African countries via several retailers.