 Members of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Lagos State chapter has warned against sustaining the culture of imposition by claiming to have conducted any congress to elect “phantom delegates”. A leading stakeholder from Alimosho Local Government Council, Alhaji Gbolanhan Lawal, said: “Any congress that does not carry the entire party members along will not be accepted in Lagos State, let us make this point very clear.” This is coming on the heel of a statement credited to Yesiro Kuramo, speaking on behalf of a faction of the party in Lagos. In the statement, which was circulated on social media, the Acting Publicity Secretary claimed to have conducted what he called “successful delegate congress” within the Lagos axis and falsely claimed that the exercise had the blessing of people from the National Headquarters. He said: “We want to state categorically that this is not the era of past chairmen that were heavily compromised; this is the era of Senator Abdullahi Adamu, a man who has a track record of being upright and straight forward, adding that such a national figure with such tremendous reputation cannot be easily corrupted.” Gbolanhan further explained: “We uphold the tenets of durable and enduring democracy; We do not subscribe to high handed measures employed to deny peaceful and loyal members of the party from enjoying dividends of democracy” stressing that they will not accept any result from this flawed process.” He called on the National Chairman of the APC Senator Adamu Abdullahi to boldly call their bluff and reject the bogus results of the flawed process and denounce their activities. He disclosed that the days when kangaroo processes are used to steal the people’s votes are over. According to him, “No man is God. The people are now more than ever awakened and conscious of the evil perpetrated by a few unpatriotic elements who often employ undemocratic means to achieve their evil agenda. Lagos State belong to all stakeholders; those who have been running a dynasty form or monarchical government in our state can no longer be allowed; everyone must be held accountable. The Alimosho leader urged party faithful to close ranks and free themselves from the stranglehold of undemocratic elements within the party. He called for the direct primary mode of election as the preferred mode for the primary including the governorship. He added: “We have been sensitizing our members in the party across board and they are fully aware of the implication of allowing a few individuals to escape with the culture of imposition.”