 Kayode Tokede Vetiva Fund Managers Limited, yesterday announced the final distributions for the year ended December 31st, 2021 for three of its Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs). The three ETFs that involved in dividend payout to holders are; Vetiva Griffin 30 ETF, Vetiva S&P Nigeria Sovereign Bond ETF and Vetiva Banking ETF of N0.15/Unit, N15.00/Unit and N0.025/Unit respectively, and it is in-line with the structure of the Fund to remit distributions to Unit Holders. Vetiva Fund Managers in a statement explained that the distribution will be paid to Unit Holders of the Vetiva Griffin 30 ETF, Vetiva S&P Nigeria Sovereign Bond ETF and Vetiva Banking ETF whose names appear in the relevant Register of Unit Holders as at on Thursday, 12th May 2022, Thursday, 12th May 2022 and Friday, 29th April 2022 respectively. Speaking on the Funds, the Head, Investments, Vetiva Fund Managers, Mrs. Evaezi Uzowulu in a statement expressed the importance of using ETFs as convenient and transparent investment vehicles for broad exposure to the Nigerian equities market, Nigerian bond market and relevant Sectors of interest via a single security. The Vetiva Griffin 30 ETF (the first equity-based ETF to be listed on the Nigerian Exchange Group (NGX) is designed to track the performance of the constituent companies of the NGX 30 Index. The index is constituted of the top 30 companies listed on the NGX in terms of market capitalization and liquidity, whilst the Vetiva Banking ETF (one of the Sector Series ETFs) is an equity-based ETF designed to track the performance of the NGX Banking Index. On the other hand, the Vetiva S&P Nigeria Sovereign Bond ETF is a fixed income ETF designed to track the performance of the FMDQ/S&P Nigeria Sovereign Bond Index. Other Exchange Traded Funds and mutual funds managed by Vetiva are the Vetiva Consumer Goods ETF, Vetiva Industrial Goods ETF and the Vetiva Money Market Fund. The ETFs track the performance of the NSE Consumer Goods Index, NSE Industrial Goods Index respectively, whilst the Vetiva Money Market Fund invests in a diversified portfolio of money market instruments to meet its objective of capital preservation, liquidity and current income. Vetiva Fund Managers Limited is a subsidiary of Vetiva Capital Management Limited and is registered with the Securities & Exchange Commission to carry out business as Fund/Portfolio Manager.