 Steve Aya Justice Abiola Soladoye, of an Ikeja Domestic Violence and Sexual Offences Court, has sentenced a dismissed Policeman, Mohammed Alidu, to life imprisonment for defiling a nine-year-old schoolgirl in the Barracks In her judgement, Justice Soladoye, held that Alidu was a disgrace to the Police because he failed to uphold law and order, and went about frolicking with an underaged girl. She maintained that the Prosecution had convincingly proved the charge of defilement against the Convict, beyond any reasonable doubt. She said the survivors’ evidence, was fully corroborated by the medical evidence. “The evidence of the survivor, is the most cwredible evidence in identifying the perpetrator. “The vivid and oral testimony of the survivor, satisfies the court that the Prosecution has proved every inch of the ingredients. “He is a disgrace to the entire Police, because he failed to uphold law and order as he went on a frolic of his own by engaging in bizarre and irresponsible behaviour turning the Barracks into a sex den. “It is most chilling. The Defendant is hereby sentenced to life imprisonment, without the option of a fine. “He should have his name entered in the Sex Offenders Register of the Lagos State Government”, the Judge held. Four witnesses testified against Alidu, during the trial. The Prosecution team, Mr  Olusola Soneye, Mrs Olufunke Adegoke, and Ms Abimbola Abolade, had told the court that Alidu committed the offence on June 29, 2018, on Makinde Police Barracks Road, Mafoluku, Oshodi. They told the court that the Survivor was on her way to school, when Alidu grabbed the Survivor into a wooden house and defiled her. They submitted that the Defendant was apprehended, after the Survivor reported the case at the Police station. The Prosecutors said the Defendant confessed to defiling the Survivor, blaming it on the devil, but later denied it as an afterthought. The Prosecutors said the offence contravened Section 137 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2015. #upjudicialsalaries “The pertinent question to ask is: who is in dereliction of the constitutional duty to review remuneration, salaries and allowances of judicial officers since 2007? The NJC and the Federal Judicial Service Commission, as well as the Revenue Mobilisation Allocation and Fiscal Commission (RMAFC) should synergise and introspect, and tell the world why the dereliction since 2007.” – Honourable Justice Ejembi Eko JSC (Rtd)