 Hammed Shittu in Ilorin An Ilorin Based Ace Journalist, Mr. AbdulRasheed Akogun, has said that the next elections should provide an avenue for the electorates to elect credible leaders that would provide quality representations and advance the course of the Nigerian masses. Akogun who is an aspirant to the Share/Ifelodun Constituency of Kwara State House of Assembly, under the platform of Social Democratic Party (SDP), stated this in Ilorin while speaking with journalists. He, however, said that he is fully prepared to provide quality representation to the people of his constituency and decried the current situation in the constituency that has left the area underdeveloped. Akogun, who is also the publisher of Fresh Insight Newspaper, tasked the electorates ‘shine their eyes’ and cast their votes for the right candidates that would change their fortunes for greatness. He added that the people should also be wary of moneybag politicians who are always trooping in during the elections period to woo them for votes but would abandoned them after the elections. He noted that the forthcoming elections should provide them the opportunity to vote for credible leaders that would rise to their needs and improves their socio well being through provision of quality dividends of democracy. He stressed that his aspiration is burnt out of the desire to cater for their needs and to ensure that the people of Share/Ifelodun constituency have good representation that would set the constituency on the path of development. Akogun  opined  that “after rigorous consultations starting from my family (immediate and extended), political and traditional leaders, Civil Society Organisations and other partners in nation building, I am convinced beyond reasonable doubt that I have landmark contributions in berthing a Kwara that truly works for all. “Share/Oke-Ode constituency, with no fewer than 250 villages, has been suffering from decades of governmental neglect. “This constituency suffers huge infrastructural deficit ranging from poor road network, lack of access to pipe borne water, and lack of access to quality healthcare among other necessities of life. “Having realised that the brain box of democratic governance is the legislative arm, whose actions and inactions have direct impact on all other arms and tiers of government, I have decided to throw my hat into the ring to contest for a seat at the Kwara State House of Assembly, representing Share/Oke-Ode constituency of Ifelodun Local Government Area of Kwara State, under the banner of the Social Democratic Party (SDP).”