Society Watch  If Mo Abudu’s story has not caught your attention as a movie lover, definitely no other will do. The multiple award-winner, who is also the first African woman in the continent to own a pan-African TV channel, EbonyLife TV, is definitely not one of your run-of-the-mill movie producers. She is unequivocally being rated among the world-class film producers. That she is a woman of ideas is undoubtedly not fulsome praise, if you consider the fact that she is the creative mind behind many soar-away and award-winning movies as well as series such as ‘The Wedding Party 1’, ‘Wedding Party 2’, ‘Oloture’, ‘Chief Daddy 1’, ‘Chief Daddy 2’, ‘Tales of Eve’ and ‘Fifty’, among others. Interestingly, her muse has not left, as she has once again delighted her fans with yet another rave series, ‘Blood Sisters’. Indeed, since it was released last week, the viewership has consistently been on the upward trend. While it has received a commendable response from movie buffs across the world, the feedback from those who have seen the series in Nigeria and beyond has been most encouraging. It shows many appreciate the new wholesome and inspiring dimension of series entertainment that the brilliant woman has offered. This is evident that her desire to rule the world of moviedom, as well as entertainment, is being established. By virtue of her rare accomplishments, Abudu is one of the few women in the continent who have written their names in gold. Her ingenuity has earned her accolades, recognition, fame and awards around the globe. Some years back, she had dared mighty things, in pursuit of glorious triumphs. With persistence and unwavering commitment to the attainment of excellence in her endeavours, things had begun to work for her; and today, she is a reference point in the business world. Even so, she is celebrated at home and abroad as one of the crème of Nigeria’s league of extraordinary entrepreneurs. Her success, despite all odds, is attributable to hard work and valuable lessons she had learnt in her growing up days through adulthood. Abudu, also the Founder of Vic Lawrence & Associates, one of Nigeria’s leading outsourcing firms and media, was born in Hammersmith Hospital, London, United Kingdom. She obtained a Master’s degree in Human Resources Development from the University of Westminster in London. The TV goddess started her professional career as a Recruitment Consultant with the Atlas Recruitment Consultancy firm in the UK. She was later headhunted by Starform Group, a very successful business information group in the UK, in 1990. Between 1990 and 1992, she assumed responsibility for the research, design and production of several conferences and seminars whilst at Starform. Much later in life, she joined ExxonMobil.  She, however, resigned after a decade to start Buckeyes Lawrence and Associates Limited. A lover of humanity, she runs The Inspire Africa Foundation, a human investment arm of Inspire Africa Limited. The non-profit organisation focuses on raising funds to implement society-transforming initiatives.