 Segun Awofadeji in Bauchi The Ekiti State Governor and presidential aspirant under the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Dr. Kayode Fayemi, has visited Bauchi State to seek the support of delegates ahead of the presidential primary election of the party. Fayemi, who addressed Bauchi national delegates and other stakeholders of the party at the APC state secretariat , said that he is in the state to consult with leaders of the party and exchange ideas in order to move the nation forward. He also said that he has solutions to the country’s security problem, emphasising that he has helped countries that had security challenges in the past to resolve their issues. The presidential hopeful explained that he is aspiring to be the next President of Nigeria under the ruling APC in order to fill the gaps that will be left at the end of the tenure of President Muhammadu Buhari come May 29, 2023. He said that the reason why he is vying for the position of the president in the 2023 general elections is to solve the challenges of security bedeviling the nation, stressing that Nigeria needs leaders that will change the narratives of the country. Fayemi said that he had helped many countries that had security challenges in the past to resolve their issues, adding that he had bagged a PhD in security studies. “So, for me, every day revolves around this party and this party has given me all of what I can live into, so it is important that whatever we do, we build it on the strength of this party and address whatever the gaps are in this country . “Our aspiration is to continue from where the President will stop in May 2023. We will quickly fill out the gaps that must have been created and left behind. We will build on the gains of President Muhammadu Buhari administration and address the gaps that our people have highlighted across the country. ”Not everything has been done because government is an unfinished project, it is only those who have the requisite knowledge, capacity, experience, expertise and passion for the ordinary Nigerians and integrity that will be able to address these issues. “I would like to say that by my training, by my experience and knowledge, I have what it takes to make a fundamental difference in the lives of our people. That is why what I have come to share with you is called ‘My pact with the All Progressives Congress’ and I believe that has been shared. I hope our leaders will take time to go through and see some of the issues I highlighted in the document. “But I have been fortunate to have worked in various capacities, I used to be an agitator fighting for democracy in Nigeria in the military days. I used to run something called Radio Kudirat when we were fighting the military for annulling June 12. “I have been a consistent card carrier before becoming a politician. As a young student leader, a pro-democracy crusader and many other things that eventually brought us into politics,” he said. The presidential aspirant emphasised that there are three major factors that need urgent attention in the country which are security, power supply and creation of employment opportunities for the teeming youths in the country. He also said that there are other issues that need to be fixed stressing however that, “Anyone who has solutions to these three will definitely be able to find solutions to all problems facing Nigeria and will reduce tension in the land, will reduce agitations for secession and ensure that things are normal again.” Talking to the delegates in order to woo them, he said that, “It is always a delight to be in Bauchi, about a month ago, I was in Azare when one of our leaders, Minister of Education, Adamu Adamu gave out his daughter in marriage. “To be back here in Bauchi is very heart-warming. My name is Kayode Fayemi, Governor of Ekiti State and the Chairman of Nigeria’s Governors. I was a pioneer Chairman of the Progressive Governors Forum, a foundation member of this great party of ours and the Chairman of the presidential primaries in 2014 that produced Muhammadu Buhari as the candidate of our party,” he added. According to him, “I have served the party in various capacities including as Director of Strategy, Research and Policy during the presidential campaign in 2015. I worked with some of my colleagues here, Senator Shuaibu and Abubakar Kari on the manifestos and other policies of government.” The Ekiti State Governor then solicited for the support of the national delegates from Bauchi State during the party primaries urging them to cast their votes for him in order to become the party’s presidential candidate in the general elections.