 Kingsley Nwezeh in Abuja The Commissioner representing the South-east in the Police Service Commission (PSC), Chief Onyemuche Nnamani, has congratulated two female police officers of South-east extraction recently promoted by the commission to the rank  of Assistant Inspectors General of Police (AIG). The officers are, CP Ngozi Vivian Onadeko, current Commissioner of Police, Oyo State Command and CP Josephine Nna, Commissioner of Police, Anti-trafficking, Force CID. Chief Nnamani said the promotions will obviously signal a bright future for the Igbos in the Nigeria Police especially with the recent cries of marginalisation from the South-east zone. He also congratulated DIG John Ogbonnaya Amadi on his confirmation as a DIG, statutorily representing the South-east in the police management team. Nnamani said the promotion and appointment should motivate the youths of the South-east to embrace a career in the Nigeria Police where they will have equal opportunities to rise to the top. He noted that “the police force is a noble profession that should attract the best of the South-east youths.” Nnamani, who spoke to journalists while on supervision of the on-going medical screening of police applicants in Zone 9 Umuahia, Abia State and Zone 13 Ukpo, Anambra State said he would continue his advocacy for Igbo youths to join the police. He noted that the South-east region will benefit tremendously from the services of indigenous police officers, who know the people, their culture and their idiosyncrasies. According to him, “a South-east under South-east police officers will obviously stamp out the raging and menacing banditry in the zone.” He enjoined the newly promoted police officers from the zone to be good ambassadors of the people stressing that they should rededicate themselves to the service of their fatherland. He also said they should demonstrate their dedication to duty and exemplary stewardship and attract the youths of the zone into the force. Nnamani is also continuing his sensitisation of the South-east youths to show interest in joining the Nigeria Police Force. Statistics from the on-going police recruitment in the country has shown a glaring disinterest by the youths of the zone who complain that the force is not attractive enough for a glorious career.