 Nigeria will take to the pitch for the first time since March’s World Cup qualification heartbreak when they go head-to-head with Mexico a friendly matchup at the AT&T Stadium tonight. The North Americans, meanwhile, head into the game unbeaten in each of their last seven outings across all competitions and will look to keep this fine run alive and kicking. Mexico will be one of 32 nations vying for glory at the World Cup in November after a sensational run in the qualifiers, where they finished second in the CONCACAF qualification standings. Mexico head into the weekend off the back of a somewhat disappointing goalless draw with Guatemala on April 28 when the two nations locked horns at the Camping World Stadium in the first of their four friendly fixtures ahead of their CONCACAF Nations League opener against Suriname on June 12. Gerardo Martino’s men are now unbeaten in each of their last eight outings across all competitions, picking up four wins and four draws since a 2-1 defeat at the hands of Canada in November 2021. Nigeria, on the other hand, were last in action on March 29, when they played out a 1-1 draw with rivals and fellow West Africans Ghana — a result which saw the Black Stars beat them to a place in the World Cup courtesy of the away goals rule. This followed a similarly heartbreaking run in the Africa Cup of Nations, where the Super Eagles picked up maximum points in the group stages before they were sent packing in the round of 16 courtesy of a 1-0 defeat at the hands of Tunisia on January 23. While Nigeria will be looking to quickly get those two disappointments behind them and return to winning ways, they head into the weekend without a win in any of their last nine friendly outings, losing four and picking up five draws in that time. Meanwhile, Coach José Santos Peseiro has opted for positivity and pragmatism as he starts his managerial stint with Nigeria having to deal with the forced absence of a number of key players, including Captain Ahmed Musa, from the prestige friendly games against Mexico and Ecuador in the United States of America. Musa, as well as goalkeeper, Maduka Okoye, defenders Zaidu Sanusi and Abdullahi Shehu, midfielders Oghenekaro Etebo, Azubuike Okechukwu, Alhassan Yusuf and Samson Tijani, and forwards Samuel Chukwueze and Sadiq Umar were unable to make it to the United States as a combination of factors including visa hitches, injuries and career concerns took their toll. “You have to be practical and face the challenges when they come this way or any other way. We would have loved to have everyone here and see how well they have put the World Cup miss behind them and forged on. But what we have is what we have. I have chosen to be positive and I have resolved to work hard to use the resources available to make Nigeria great again. “I am happy we have such an excellent pool of players who are committed and ready to give their all every time. This situation was not something they created; challenges do turn up that way. We have a number of options who have been told to rise up to the occasion. Every player who gets the chance to wear the Nigeria jersey should be proud of that opportunity and give their all.” However, deputy captain William Ekong, Moses Simon and Alex Iwobi are in the famous city in the State of Texas as the Eagles are set for the clash with the Mexicans tonight. Goalkeeper Francis Uzoho, defenders Olaoluwa Aina and Chidozie Awaziem, midfielders Joseph Ayodele-Aribo and Innocent Bonke, and forwards Cyril Dessers and Terem Moffi are also part of the party. Eight home –based professionals, including Olorunleke Ojo, Ibrahim Buhari, Chiamaka Madu, Victor Mbaoma and Ishaq Kayode Rafiu are also in the US to fight for shirts. After the clash with El Tri, the Super Eagles’ contingent will fly into the State of New Jersey on May 29, for their scheduled friendly against Ecuador at the Red Bull Arena in Harrison on June 2. The two matches have been designed as physical, mental and psychological reawakening for the Eagles ahead of next month’s 2023 Africa Cup of Nations qualifying duels with Sierra Leone and Mauritius in Abuja and St. Pierre respectively. Nigeria host Sierra Leone at the MKO Abiola National Stadium, Abuja on June 9, before flying to St. Pierre for their encounter with the Les Dodos at the Cote D’Or National Sports Complex, St. Pierre as from 1pm Mauritius time (10am Nigeria) on June 13.