 Please, Let’s Leave Lord Lugard Out of Our Problems You know when something don pass you, and you start looking for silly excuses and telling beer parlour stories to explain why unlike your mates you have not been able to ‘make’ it yet. That is the way I see these things especially when I listen to supposedly very intelligent people who blame not only the British for our present predicament as a nation but even go as far as pulling Lord Lugard into the matter. How all this ‘rubbish’ we are facing in this country concern the gentle Lord Lugard, I really don’t see. If it is not cowardice and a failed disposition in nation-building, why would we be calling these people’s names after over 60 years of independence and over 100 years of amalgamation? It is appalling that people are still crying foul. Mbok, I think we should just all shut up and face the foibles of our national failure. After 60 years of continuous failures, a series of coups, a constant flow of irritating leadership and a gross inability to achieve national cohesion and consensus, how is Lord Lugard to blame? Come on na. They will now be quoting Awolowo that Nigeria is a geographical expression and that the colonialists really wanted the North to rule forever, hence their disjointed constitution and all that crap. The 600 coups, the crazy and infantile attempt at rewriting the constitution, the blatant stealing, the mayhem and banditry, is Lord Lugard abi? We have not started. When we are ready, we will have more credible people like Satan, Michael Jackson and Bobrisky to blame for our sad situation. We have not started. Idris Ahmed and Nsima Ekere’s N127bn Questions Barring that this could be politics playing, I would like for the National Psychiatric Hospital to invite these gentlemen for a series of evaluations. I would like to sit in on these sessions to be using ‘atori’ to flog their balls as we try to understand the brain that they carry getting involved in this level of stealing. You see, Nigerians, let’s remain very calm and patient o. Let’s not get carried away o. We that know these things, know these things o. Election is coming, primaries of both parties in a matter of days and all of a sudden such monumental fraud is uncovered and EFCC which has been pursuing Lekki miscreants suddenly makes these huge arrests. In fact, we have also just heard that Patricia Etteh, the former Speaker of the House of Representatives has also been pulled in. That mama no dey even hear word sef. Let’s relax o. Some unfortunate presidential aspirant has just had his pipeline of funds blocked. Simple. This is no time to scream Uhuru. Someone is being knocked out of the race. Sad thing is that my Juju man has not told me just yet who the person is but let’s watch very carefully, the person or the people will soon drop out of the race and be saying, “in the spirit of national unity, I have decided to step down”. National unity my foot! My people, anyhow we look at this thing, the madness is real. How a few people will arrogate to themselves these kinds of power and rights over our destiny and be using our money to be playing ‘kalo kalo’ really defies all logic. Even at that, I still think that these hapless two should still be brought in for mental evaluation. They really have mind o and they will be sitting on the negotiation tables with ASUU and NLC and be keeping a straight face when those ones will be crying for even half of this money and they will be saying, “government has no funds.” Even that big-headed Nsima will be seeing the wanton poverty all over the South-south and he will be oiling a war chest to either contest or support a candidate when the people would have all died from kwashiorkor. Our God is very patient o. Atiku Abubakar: Baba is Tired Mbok, Baba is tired but you know how it is with old men, he just won’t agree. The Baba must still continue even though the intellectual capacity and indeed physical energy is all but gone. A presidential race, especially from the opposition can be very tasking. Fighting to come back from the outside, especially years after being in power is not child’s play. Baba with a series of gaffes is showing very strong signs of stress and lack of focus. First was the Deborah matter. That gaffe was unforgivable on all sides. I used to sha marvel as to how he was always quick to comment on social media. Small thing, Atiku will tweet and I used to suspect that those pronouncements were not usually well thought through especially with the speed they come out. This Deborah matter finally confirmed my suspicions and he now even buried it by throwing his people under the bus. That one has not finished o, he has gone to harass and throw away media men. Media men? At this time. This man has not heard that you carefully choose your enemies o. He is making very powerful enemies left and right – Muslims, Christians and now media men. Who will now even vote for him, Cattle? Honestly speaking, I think he has served enough. Customs, Vice President, concurrent aspirant, it is enough. Just slide into oblivion, Lord. Thanks. Nyesom Wike, Show Them Pepper If for nothing, his barbs and utterances are making this whole campaign season very interesting. He is so comical and fearless that I am thinking of voting for him if for nothing else. The other day, he said: “Just give me the votes and I will show APC pepper.” I laughed and almost peed on my pants. This Wike as President will ask Putin, “what is even the matter with you o, I will slap you o.” Kai. I simply love this man. The other time he asked what was even wrong with the people who are saying they want to continue Buhari’s good works. “Which good works?” he asked in his unique gravel voice. Everybody reeled on the floor in laughter. Kai. Another one: “Give me the votes and go and sleep with your two eyes closed. Dem no dey fear?” Kai, Wike, Wike na you biko. A long time ago,  he was giving a speech when he spotted a young man in full traditional regalia of a respected Rivers traditional ruler. He pointed at him and said, “You, you are a small boy o. They have given you chieftaincy title and you have gone to sew cloth and be looking like Uthman Dan Fodio and be causing trouble all over the place.” This one almost killed me, because the guy was seated there and in front of the people and media being taken out by his Executive Governor. He must have felt like a fool. Kai! Now he has trained his sights on the Nigerian Bar Association. He said they are – let me quote him o before those ones will now out of cowardice come at me o. “Nigerian Bar Association useless, only good at issuing statements.” If you ask me though, I will say apt. Let’s leave it there.  Wike for President o. Wike for President. Na correct man. Kai! Babajide Sanwo-Olu, Please Do Not Listen Following the comprehensive ban on Okada in six local governments of the state as a first step, I have just seen a report where the Hausa community is offering him massive votes to rescind the decision. This is a Greek gift and the Sanwo-Olu that I think I know will not fall for this kind of joke. The gruesome murder of the young sound engineer is just the most publicised of the series of atrocities carried out by these marauders. Aiding serious crimes, kidnapping, armed robbery and even reckless riding leading to road rages and the untimely deaths of so many people. Mbok, the disadvantage of Okada far outweighs their uses. We will walk instead. Is it not better to walk than to be exposed to such mindless criminality all in the name of transportation? The numbers make it very impossible to regulate. You cannot even register them, they come at you like locusts and invade a community and before you know it, their numbers will begin to scare you. I once pursued a young girl to Bariga. She said: “Edgar, if you want me, come and see where I live.” Trust me, I don’t back down from such challenges. That was how we drove into Ilaje. The road, ehn. Sanwo? The road. Let me not talk about that one here. When we got to the house, it was the last house before the lagoon. Come and see. I saw over one million okada riders living there o, inside an abandoned building. Some were taking their baths, others were cooking but most of them were just lazing around. I asked the lady if she was comfortable living beside these people. She told me that rape was part of their lives in exchange for security. That not even married women on the street were immune to it and because of her condition, she could not leave the place since she too was an illegal squatter in the place. We relocated her but the millions of so-called ‘okada men’ in that building scared me. If they want to, these okada riders can take over the whole of Bariga in a second. Which kind of country is this one na? Fear everywhere. Please baba, don’t listen, carry out that ban and let’s even have a registration exercise for all Lagosians so that people will be carrying ID cards around so we know who is who. This is mad. Coronation Art Gallery: Exquisitely Elegant I saw the invite in my mail asking if I would be available for the opening of their Art Gallery carrying works from the massive collector, Mr. Aigboje Aig-Imoukhuede. Oya na. We understand painting. That was how I stormed the place complete with my new ‘pussy shirt’ as designed by my brother Clem Effanga. Na only me wear shirt o. Everybody wore black suit and traditional wear. Even my brother, the legendary photographer Kelechi Amadi Obi sef wear something that looked one kain beautiful and I am sure it was my brother Mudi that made it for him. As expected, the place was glam, mature and fulfilling. I saw a lot of big people o. From Dere Otubu who is the Chairman at Eko Disco and my egbon Kola Adeshina, a powerful man from the Sahara Group. My native and townsman Udem Ufot came in beautiful shoe o. As I looked at the shoes, I felt like pushing him down and collecting them. They were that beautiful. Aig Jnr, looking very distinguished in his lovely grey beard, received the guests.  Immediately he saw me, he exclaimed, “Duke, I dey owe you.” I said, “Yes o, you dey owe me.” We laughed and hugged. Then Aigboje came in looking simple but very cute if I can use the word. He too wore the same shoes Udeme wore. It was either na Udeme buy am for am or na him buy am for Udeme but to confuse us, they wore different colours. I am sure, Udeme would have called him from home, “Oh boy, no wear that our shoe o, you know say that Duke boy go dey there make he no come yab us.” Aig would have replied, “My brother, I like the shoe, make we risk am, he fit no notice. We go just give am Afang and he go confuse.” Sorry no Afang and I noticed. The paintings were out of this world. They were African and a lot in abstract and oil on canvas. You know as your money never reach that level, you look very quickly and walk away and go take picture with Kelechi before you spill the drink on them. That Udom wey no like me, will never use Akwa Ibom money to compensate for any spoilt painting. Falana, a beautiful up-and-coming jazzy singer, thrilled the audience. Her smokey pulsating voice rendered the cool breezy evening, giving the whole event a colour that made it resplendent. Mbok, whoever decided to invite me, God bless you o, it was a sweet evening. Ayodeji Karim: Breaks Bounds This super intelligent businessman and leader in the infrastructure and construction world has just thrown his hat into the ring. He has indicated an interest in vying for the Oyo South Senatorial District. Up until recently, he was the CEO of the giant Costain West Africa where he has more than proven his mettle as a visionary leader and one of the youngest at 39 to run a quoted company. It is this foresight and vision-driven leadership that he wants to bring into the Senate. A scion of the Alhaji Dauda Adebayo Karim Family of Ile Jagun Aiko Compound in Opo Labiran area of Ibadan North East Local Government, Ayo is one of the most educated in that race which throws a certain depth into the equation. His brother, the great Kola Karim who is the CEO at Shoreline, the infrastructure and energy giant continues to express expansive optimism at the very strong prospects of his victory leaning on the call to serve issued by the very eager people of the senatorial district. My prayers are with him. Denis Olisa: Pleasant Surprise I heard a very hot gist relating to this perfect gentleman who works at Zenith Bank. I know he is really reclusive and usually does not like his name in the media but how will I now give the gist without mentioning his name o. Let me just talk abeg. He was recently on a flight out of Lagos to Asaba for something I don’t know and in the process of checking in, forgot his hand luggage at the ‘Aviation checking in’ desk with valuables and important documents. It was until he landed in Asaba that it dawned on him that he had forgotten the hand luggage. All attempts to reach the Lagos Airport fell flat and he gave up and continued with his task in Asaba. Anyway, on his return to Lagos a few days later, he just said, he should sha try. My people, that was his luggage waiting for him with all it contained intact. Boy, he was so excited and thanked God for this small miracle. Now listen, in other climes, this is a normal routine and nothing to shout to heaven about. But in our country, this is a major seismic occurrence. When you have used a handcuff to tie your bag to your wrist, they will use a chainsaw and cut off your hand to steal N1,000 from you. In traffic, they will break your windscreen to carry your phone and even at that airport, all sorts of miscreants in various kinds of uniforms all with one aim – to fleece and steal from you. You now come and experience this kind of thing, it is worth doing thanksgiving in church, I tell you. Congratulations my brother, but no try am again o. Lightning doesn’t strike twice in one place o. Mudi, Please Grow Up My people, me and Mudi are fighting o. You will notice that I have not jabbed him on this page for some time and I know it will be paining him because he likes to be jabbed on the page. Anyways, let me confess. I am the one that looked for his trouble. One evening, he asked me to meet him at Jevnik for a late-night dose of Afang. You know Mudi likes to eat too much and me sef when it comes to Afang, I am the Olympic champion and Jevnik is where you get the kind of heavy Afang that can feed a whole village. So, we appeared. Two celebrities. Mudi with his ‘tontiri’ trousers, me and my uncombed hair. They dropped the Afang and the Eba was so huge that I could not see his face on the other side. Now Mudi has been complaining that he was broke and me sef I no dey ever get money. So, I convened a national conference before we started to eat. I said: “My Urhobo brother, you know as we both no too hold, make we share one pot of soup and get different Eba.” That is the strategy of eating at Jevnik. Their food used to kill. Mudi, astonished, said, “How can?” That people are watching us and that he has a brand. I asked him which brand, will it be better if we end up washing plates? That one, Linda Ikeji will finish us o. I ended my submission by reminding him that na him kuku get shop for Accra, Nairobi and South Africa. He was about to agree, when one beautiful girl walked in and screamed, “Mudiiiiiiii, can I take a picture with you?” That was how Mudi now ordered another plate of Afang and a big goat head pepper soup for the girl Me, I was just looking at this man. He wants to play me Urhobo wayo. I say I will show him. After eating to my heart’s satisfaction, I even took a piece of meat from the girl. I told them I was coming, let me take a call. That was how I landed in Shomolu straight to my toilet o. Since then, Mudi has blocked me. He is not taking my calls and refused to follow me to Warri. I miss him, he is my brother. Please, if you know him, help me call and beg him for me. Please tell him I am ready to do a repayment plan and that he should not allow Afang to come between two brothers. I love you bro, no vex. Na Buhari cause am. The economy is tight.