 Yinka Kolawole in Osogbo The Governor of Osun State, Gboyega Oyetola, has said that  his love for the masses, passion for their welfare and the development of the state are some of the reasons people want him to be re-elected. Oyetola said this during N30 million  fund raising ceremony organised by the  Ebira Community in Osogbo, Osun state yesterday. The governor said his decision to seek for re-election was due to the confidence reposed in his administration by the electorate, who appreciated his meaningful contributions in the last three and half years.The governor was represented at the event by his Special Adviser on Civic Engagement, Hon. Olatunbosun Oyintiloye. Oyetola, who noted that with support of the masses, he was confident of victory, said campaign of calumny by the opposition parties would not stop his re-election. The governor said that since the inception of his administration, he had embarked on series of developmental projects as well as prompt payment of salaries and pensions. Oyetola also said that his administration was aware of the importance  of security and social stability as the fundamental purpose for which the government was instituted and has lived up to that responsibility since becoming governor. He said: “Since the inception of our administration, concerted efforts have been centred on fortifying the state security architecture through the establishment of   security Joint Taskforce to  complement the mainstream security agencies in preventing crimes in the state. “To further exhibit our administration’s commitment to security of lives and property, 360 persons were recruited into the state Amotekun with the procurement of 20 security vehicles and several communication gadgets to support them in the discharge of their responsibility. “More than 750 vigilance  groups were also recruited in all the local government areas of the state  to  solidify the state security network.” Oyetola said that the electorate, who massively elected him 2018, could attest to his resounding achievements in the area of infrastructure, education, health care delivery, empowerment, social intervention and other critical areas of development. Oyetola, who assured the people  that he would not betray their  trust of the,when re-elected, urged the electorate not to allow those who lack basic of knowledge of governance to deceive them. The governor also urged members of the Ebira community to continue to live in peace with their host communities. Oyetola said  peaceful coexistence would bring stability and enhance national economic growth and development. The governor further said that an atmosphere of peaceful coexistence and harmonious relationship between the government and the governed was needed for growth and development. The governor, however, appealed to registered electorate, who are yet to collect their Permanent Voter Cards to do so and support him during the July 16 poll. The governor also appealed to the Ebira Community to support his re-election in the forthcoming governorship election, so as to enable him consolidate on the achievements of the past years. However, in recognition of his  good leadership style, an award of excellence was presented to Oyintiloye by the Ebira community at the event. In his remarks, the president of the group, Shaibu Abere, commended the governor for his love for the  non-indigene, which had made Osun a peaceful state without inter-tribal conflicts. Abere stated that their businesses had been thriving well due to prompt payment of workers’ salaries, as civil servants formed bulk of their patrons. He also commended the governor for various developmental projects across the state, adding that the group would continue to live peacefully with other tribes and also support the governor for  his re-election.