Ibrahim Shuaibu in Kano Kano State Deputy Governor, Nasiru Yusuf Gawuna has been anointed as the preferred choice of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for the 2023 governorship election. The stakeholders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) made their choice at a meeting which Governor Abdullahi Ganduje presided over. The stakeholders were also said to have agreed that the former Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, Murtala Sule Garo, should be the running mate to Gawuna in the election. The stakeholders unani-mously agreed that the deputy governor is to succeed Ganduje at the 2023 general elections. Mr Garo, who is believed to have the control of the party structure at the local government level, was seen as the preferred candidate of the wife of the governor, Hafsat Ganduje.The incumbent governor had served as the deputy of Senator Rabiu Kwankwaso during the two terms he governed Kano. Kwankwaso had endorsed Ganduje to take over from him, but the duo fell apart shortly after the 2015 elections.Also, sources said   Ganduje is expected to pick senatorial seat nomination form and expression of interest today.The Senatorial seat of Kano North where Abdullahi Ganduje wants to contest is currently occupied by Barau  Jibrin whom many see as the grassroot politician. Meanwhile, the  former Speaker of the Kano State House of Assembly,  Kabiru  Alhassan  Rurum has dumped the All Progressives Congress (APC). Rurum is also member of the House of Representatives, representing Rano, Bunkure and Kibiya constituency and a very close ally of  Governor Ganduje. Rurum dumped the party yesterday  and said he would soon announce the political party he would be defecting to.Also, the National Assembly member representing Tofa, Dawakin Tofa and Rimingado constituency,  Mr Tijjani Abdulkadir Jobe has dumped the APC. Jobe announced his decision in a letter sent to ward Chairman of Jobe Kudu in Tofa Local Government Area of Kano. “I formally write to tender my resignation from the APC with effect from Thursday, May 5, 2022.“After careful consultations with my teaming supporters and political allies we realized that it will serve no purpose to remain in the APC due to the current crisis in Kano state. He, however, did not say if he would be joining another political party. But he was pictured with a former governor, Rabiu Kwankwaso of the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP), following a visit on Friday in Abuja.