HighLife  Banking, oil and gas, telecoms and property! Who else do you know that has huge investments in these sectors. We are talking about a big player whose business interests are tied to the nation’s economic growth and survival. Mike Adenuga, is not called the guru for anything. He’s the sage of big business who can smell opportunities that are yet to make an appearance. Over the years, his sense of smell and foresight have continually astound. There is no point in debating the fact that global business people are very influential. With the snap of a finger, they can change the fortune of a young man or woman, and consequently, affect the direction of the future. This is what the government of Nigeria has recognized and appreciated Adenuga for doing, a merit that will go down in the history books for years and years to come. A few days ago, President Muhammadu Buhari led the charge of government officials to recognise the peerless contributions of Globacom’s Chairman, Adenuga. Buhari conferred on the astute and impactful businessman the National Productivity Order of Award. By doing so, the leadership of Nigeria was saying that Adenuga’s achievements are not something that others can match up to, especially considering that these achievements are revolutionising the entrepreneurial sector and promoting a culture of diligence and patriotism. Adenuga was not the only person recognised during the event. Also included in the awardees in the ‘Employers of Labour’ category were 35 other personalities; from Zenith Bank Chairman Jim Ovia to BUA Group Boss Abdulsamad Rabiu, not to mention super industrialist Chinedum Anthony Okereke. Each one of these individuals had contributed significantly, with some taking leading roles in ensuring that the Ebola virus and COVID-19 pandemic did not make short work of the Nigerian people or collapse the economy. Thus, for Adenuga to stand out even among these very prestigious individuals is a distinguishing mark. To be sure, this is not the first time that Adenuga has been recognised for his contributions on a national scale. In 2012, he was awarded the Grand Commander of the Order of the Niger (GCON), a title he holds alongside people like incumbent Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, former President Goodluck Jonathan, and former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, and a handful of other legends. In short, the new award is another reason the entire country must raise a hand to celebrate Adenuga. To dedicate one’s hard-earned resources to the improvement of other lives is not something everybody can do.