 Fidelis  David in Akure The opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Ondo State yesterday alleged that the state Governor, Mr. Oluwarotimi Akeredolu (SAN) and  the state Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Mr. Ade Adetimeyin, had handpicked candidates whom they consider as loyal members for all the party’s primary elections in the state. The party also alleged the duo of blackmailing and intimidating those who insisted on party primaries to withdraw. In a statement signed by the Publicity Secretary of the party in the state, Kennedy Ikantu Peretei, it alleged that one does not need the prophetic exactitude of a Jewish prophet to know that, Rotimi Akeredolu-led APC will have a tragic outing in the 2023 general elections. The statement reads: “Not many supporters and faithfuls of the APC in Ondo State could come to terms with the audacity and high handedness with which Rotimi Akeredolu and his man Friday, Engr. Ade Adetimehin, who distributed party tickets to individuals that Akeredolu considers as loyal party members. “All 26 House of Assembly candidates were handpicked by Akeredolu. Those who insisted on party primaries were blackmailed and intimidated to withdraw. When members of his party complained, an official statement was issued by his media handlers to muscle up dissenting voices, dismissing them as not appreciating the trouble Akeredolu takes in holding the party together. “On the appointed date for the primaries, delegates were shocked as designated venues were desolate. Needless to say that, all aggrieved persons are waiting to participate in the final burial rites of the APC,” the party stressed. It also accused one of the governor’s commissioners of using thugs and guns to kidnap delegates opposed to the choice of the governor in Ondo East Local Government Area. “A particular case in point is Ondo East Local Government, where one of Akeredolu’s Commissioners was accused of using thugs and guns to kidnap delegates opposed to the choice of the Governor. The drama is still unfolding. Across the state, most persons are awaiting how all these will play out shortly. “It is unbelievable that a man who emerged through a party primaries where he never stood any chance of winning can turn around to act god in the affairs of those who have endured him in the last six years. Anyway, what to expect in Akeredolu’s zoo is a child’s play compared to the dinner Buhari and his team of power hungry hawks will serve in Abuja where the APC will be interned after the consensus primaries.” It noted that the people of the state are waiting curiously to see if Akeredolu will also prevail on the Governor of Imo State, Hope Uzodinma, to handpick his wife, Betty Akeredolu for the Imo East Senatorial seat. “How Rotimi Akeredolu succeeded to silence everybody to perpetrate this level of impunity in a party of men and women some of whom have been in party politics for decades is very surprising. How he subdued all voices of reason will make an interesting reading in future. “What cannot be said with finality is whether or not Akeredolu will be able to prevail on his brother Governor, Hope Uzodinma of Imo State to handpick Betty Akeredolu for the Imo East Senatorial seat. If he fails to accomplish that, all these efforts will not be worthwhile, because, the day another governor is sworn-in on 24th February, 2025, that is when Akeredolu will realise that, indeed, the people of Ondo State have merely tolerated him. It will be a huge compensation, if by any means lawful, he can make Betty a Senator come 2023,” the party added.