 Akinwunmi Ambode: It’s Time to Rumble If you watch mafia films, not of the Igbo movie variant, but the real Italian mafia films, one thing you learn very quickly is that, once you aim and shoot, you kill. No excuses o, you cannot miss or shoot leg or hand. You must kill. Because once you miss, you can be sure that it’s your testicles or head that will be served at the next conference of the mafia lords. Someone forgot to tell Asiwaju Tinubu this thing. The humiliation that was meted out on Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode that period still rankles and bites. Ambode was hurriedly kicked out of office in a way and manner unbecoming of someone who had served very diligently. Everybody begged. Everybody. Wives of top people, Abuja people, even ordinary Lagos citizens all to no avail. The decision had been taken and like Pontius Pilate, the Asiwaju washed his hands off Ambode’s blood and the rest was history. Today, that matter has come back to haunt the Asiwaju. Now whether this would go as far as to hurt his presidential ambition is what I cannot decipher from Shomolu. But the fact that it is a talking point or a basis for negotiations in some strategic circles shows that just maybe that incident could have been handled differently. While all that was going on; I was beginning to hear some rumbles. Mr. Wale Oluwo, the only Commissioner in the Ambode cabinet and who remains very thick-headed and stubborn has gone to pick form within the ruling APC party. My sources finger Ambode in this move and I have no reason to doubt it. I hear the strategy is to leverage on the growing and restive rumblings within the Party structure and indeed the whole of the state to attempt a civilian coup. Wale said the whole thing is looking like a monarchy and his move is to dismantle it and give power back to the people. Well, what can we do but to stand clear? As you see me so, in this kind of thing, I hide my head make stray bullet no come catch me here o. Like Bola Ige, ‘I siddon look.’ Arthur Nzeribe: He Finally Left We will never say evil about the departed but this one is a struggle. With due respect to his family, teeming fans and admirers and all right-thinking Nigerians, I will say may the Almighty God receive his soul and grant him all mercies. But the man no try sha. He came into our consciousness in the Second Republic when he took on the establishment. He fought the reigning NPN to a standstill and won the admiration of Nigerians. But from then, I no know wetin happen o. Be like say, something turn the man’s head. He just started working against the people. They started calling him maverick and he reveled in that. Contributing immensely to the political instability and all that, that has continued to dog this our country. One of our problems is that we do not think about our legacies when we take some positions. Like the bowler-hat wearing one who is about to cross carpet to pick form even after being a president of a whole country under another platform. What exactly does he think his legacy will be when history wants to judge? See this Nzeribe own now. He has passed, sadly, after a long and debilitating illness and all I have seen to read about him was the role he played in scuttling June 12. Which kind of legacy is that? Will people want to marry his daughter, although I won’t mind if they fit the criteria – light-skinned and robust. But seriously, what does it say of a man when almost all of the 12 articles I have read about him since his demise have zeroed it down to June 12? Me, I just tire o. People no dey do like say them get sense. Kai. Olumide Akpata:  Who is This Man? So, my friend Seun who lives in London sent me a picture of my brother Mr. Olumide Akpata and wrote “Duke, see your friend.” Now I don’t know if Seun don get work for airport for London or he was just doing busy body. Anyways, he sent me the picture and I responded: “Wetin you want make I do? “I no know, I just say make I send am to you.” “Thank you,” I replied. “Mbok, if you see am with a transvestite or anything like that, send the picture. No just be sending me picture of a man wey dey push him own trolley for airport na.” Then the next day, as I was sitting down about to enter EFCC for a ‘meeting’ – if you gerrit, you gerrit. I decided to check Linda Ikeji and see what is happening in the shadowy part of town and lo and behold! I am seeing my brother seated like one big traditional ruler and standing beside him is a very beautiful and delectable damsel taking a pre-wedding shoot. Kai, my brother is getting married and he no inform me? That bridal train cannot be complete I am telling you. I must be in the bridal train o. Then I now said, let me go check the comments and I almost died. Mbok, Nigerians are dense and these are the youths we are expecting to come and save us from this APC malaise? One person asked if Olu was a basketballer? Simply because they had captioned his picture President, Nigerian Bar Association. Kai. Others, especially the ladies, were marvelling that – this man never marry since? Abi na him pikin wey want marry so? The guys simply concentrated on his bride – see as this girl fine. Na this man come catch this kind girl? Na Bini girl? Where for Bini this kind girl dey o cos I no dey see babe like this o. But who the man come be? Why Linda come dey carry him picture? I could no longer laugh. Anger took over my being. So, you could be forgiven for not recognizing Olu Akpata but for you not to know what the Nigerian Bar Association stands for but can decipher a sex tape? It’s really sad. Nigeria is truly in trouble and I must say that this set are the ones Buhari called lazy that we almost choked him. Anyways, my brother, well done and I wish you supreme wedding bliss. Congratulations. Prof. Ben Ayade, Please Don’t Make Me Laugh So, everybody has picked form and my brother too has picked form. This whole thing is making me feel one kain. No wonder PDP alluded that maybe the federal government is using style to fund APC in preparations for the general elections or how do you explain this Ayade sef picking form. No be only him o, even Managing Director of Nigerian Security and Minting Company pick form and the INEC had to issue a press statement denying that their Oga had interest. This Ayade own is even the one that is the funniest. A man that used to cry that he never believed that after five years as governor, his people will still be hungry. So, what kind of food did his wife give him that made him feel that we are ready to extend the drudgery in Cross River State to the whole of Nigeria. All these funny people jumping up and down instead of going to read nursery rhymes to their children and grandchildren just make me tire for this country. Ayade? Pick form? To come and do what? Ride a power bike all over the place with a side pattern? Please let me eat my Afang in peace. Come and beat me o. Nigeria has suffered. 200 million people wey we be oo. Dapo Abiodun: Enemies from Within Your Excellency, at this moment you do not have friends o. One of them is one Dr. AOO Olu-Onagoruwa. He says he is a vegetable farmer and lives in Ilisan Ijebu where that one is, I really don’t know or care. The man has been circulating some very damaging things about your person. Sadly, he mentioned the unfortunate incident with your son which to me was low. If I ever meet him, I will give him a knock for that one. That is cowardly and vile. He even mentioned madam, which like I have said is weak. But in the same write-up, he said so many things o. At first I didn’t believe them until I saw the statement purportedly released by your team blaming Amosun for these ‘attacks’ and the response from those people denying such but also challenging you to come out and state your case. You see, my brother, I don’t want to say no smoke without fire but at the same time, when all these stories are flying everywhere, one can start to want to say that thing o – no smoke without fire. You see, me I don’t want to be caught in the crossfire, that is why I am not being specific about what this man has said, like the one jumping down from a one storey building. I will not mention it o. But if you ask me, I think you should be bold enough to stand stout and defend all of these allegations once and for all. They are too plenty and they are not going away and frankly they are making some of us look at you with one eye. Please clear the air about University of Ife, clear the air about the alleged conviction in the US and clear the air about your relationship with that one that went to defraud thousands of Americans during Covid. I was at Olumo Rock this last weekend. If you don’t want to face all of these people, just go to any one of the five shrines that are there and swear by them that you are honourable and let all these things end. If you are afraid, I can follow you but I will not climb the rock o or enter the shrine. I will wait for you at the eatery for you to go and come back and if you no come back… Please, you people leave me alone o. Meanwhile I know Onogoruwa, he is my childhood friend, in case we are looking for him, I can help you catch him, from there we catch that one and give him palm oil to drink. Kai. Oga just do the needful, this is getting embarrassing. Apostle Suleiman: I Stand by You This girl will just not let go. She has released a video of what she is claiming is the Apostle’s thing. You see, I have been asking people to show me how to upload on twitter so that I can upload my own thing in solidarity. ‘Wharisit’? Why all these defamation and attacks? For what? Those of us that our thing is still standing should stand up and stand with the Pastor in this matter. Please forgive my continuous allusion to the word ‘stand’ in this write-up because if the pastor’s thing was not standing, we would not be distracted by this young girl at this time when them Ayade are collecting presidential forms. Let me state my grouse. I do not care whatever must have transpired between the pastor and this irritant. It is very obvious that some under hand game involving an exchange of illegal body fluid must have occurred. My own is that when you slap a woman that has annoyed you, all the women in this country will rush out and tie wrapper and be shouting in those sexy voices of theirs – there can be no justification for hitting a woman. Now this ‘mumu’ girl has done this one now, and I am asking what is the justification for this? So, the man ‘knacked’ you and didn’t deliver on his promises, he will now deserve to have his pecker on the internet. Please na, what is good for the goose is good for the gander. Our mothers will not train their descendants. They will be going around fighting for baseless equality and independence and their daughters are running around the place rudderless, sleeping with dogs and doing these kinds of things. Everything I have heard is that it is the pastor’s fault o. It is always the man’s fault. Even the one that slept with a dog, it was the frustration of a man that drove her there. Let’s continue to be fooling ourselves and we will see the kind of mothers, wives and daughters that we will be breeding. This one is not even ashamed to post the picture, not caring what it will even do to her reputation. Mbok, I have said my mind. What is the worst that will happen to me- they ban me from the other room abi? We go take the punishment; it is not a problem. Please can someone call me and show me how to upload now that we are still standing before the thing fall o. Rubbish. Chrisland Sex Tape: Appeal for Calm Please let me beg the Lagos State Government to temper justice with mercy in this matter. As I write, I hear a man is facing charges in court for distributing the tape – and I warned people o and now four teachers who escorted the kids to Dubai have also been charged for concealment and are facing a likely seven years imprisonment for work wey dem go o. Please I beg His Excellency or whoever is in charge to please pull back. Although the episode is sordid and has gone against existing laws, it is not banditry or treason and as such we should be looking at rehabilitation and better public education to mute a reoccurrence. Picking only one man when almost the whole Lagos saw that video and distributed it, is like looking for a scapegoat, hence my plea. The teachers too. Na just native intelligence do them. This episode shook the country to a standstill. Parents lamented and even the authorities were I am a parent. My daughter attends the school and as such I am on ground zero in this matter. Jailing those teachers or the scapegoat will not solve anything but will send untold hardships and suffering to their families. Let’s do like Gowon after the civil war and institute the three Rs for this matter – Rehabilitation… I don forget the other two . No vex, at least you understand me. Mrs F Kukoyi: She Spanked Me Now that our kids and the school system is the main discourse, let me put the matter of Mrs Kukoyi up there. Mrs Kukoyi was our Headmistress at the Command Children School in Ikeja. She has built Army Generals, Captains of Industry and so many upright Nigerians. She was a no-nonsense teacher who did not spare the rod. She was a disciplinarian who pushed parents to the background as she embarked on the arduous task of molding future leaders. See those days, my mother will use her to threaten me when I was naughty at home. Once she says “I will tell Mrs Kukoyi,” I don weak o. Mrs Kukoyi would give you the spanking of your life and that kept all of us straight. The other day, I was talking with my brother, Air Vice Marshall Sunday Mankinde (rtd) who went through her tutelage and he confessed that those ethics of discipline she put in him guided him throughout his illustrious military career. Another person, my brother Wale Oyedeji who was a director at GTB and is now a director at Stanbic also swears by her training. Even me that is writing here, I can still feel the pangs of the cane on my buttocks that she gave me after catching me at the Leventis Supermarket during school hours buying Fanice. She gave me the treatment that even Putin would be envious of. She caned us, stripped us. Sometimes we had to bathe and dressed in new school uniforms all in front of the school. Olumide Ohunayo, an aviation expert, suffered with me and is still alive to tell the story. Today, we no longer have teachers like Mrs Kukoyi. What we have are petty traders and weaklings masquerading as teachers. When you go on a visit, you will see the teachers losing all sense of decency ‘ragging’ you for money. “I am the one taking care of your son,” they will be telling you. Rubbish. Anyways., Mrs Kukoyi celebrated her 90th birthday and all her children went to visit her at Obanikoro. Me, I no go o, I have still not forgiven her for the spanking, so I stayed back and watched via Zoom. She still has her fearful and strict mien. Even as I was watching, fear was still catching me. They no longer have these kinds of teachers. Mrs Kukoyi is the last of that breed. We thank God for her life and for the lives of all the Nigerians she has molded and gifted this nation. Kai, sex tape for Mrs. Kukoyi’s time? That one na to just run away.  You and your parents. She will not only spank you; she will spank your Mama and Papa too, I tell you. God bless her.