 Emmanuel Ugwu-Nwogo The Prelate of the Methodist Church Nigeria, His Eminence Samuel Kanu Uche has been set free along with two other clerics and his driver who were abducted on Sunday. News of their release filtered in last night just as the Church leadership was already mobilising members to raise N100 million ransom demanded by the kidnappers. It also not clear if the ransom was eventually raised and paid. The Police Public Relations Officer(PPRO) Abia State Command, Mr. Geoffrey Ogbonna, confirmed the cheering news to THISDAY when contacted on phone but declined to give details of how the clerics regained their freedom. “All I can confirm to you now is that they have all been released,” he said. Similarly the Presbyter of Wesley Cathedral Umuahia, Very Rev. Aaron Akabuokwu  confirmed the release of the head of the Methodist Church in Nigeria. He told THISDAY that it was really true that the evil men that laid their hands on the men of God have set them free to the glory of God. “Information reaching us is that he (Prelate) and the others with him have been released,” he joyfully announced, adding, “I don’t have details for now” on where and how they were released. Before the release of the prelate and others, the  Secretary of the Conference, Rt. Rev. Michael Akinwale, appealed to all parishioners to rise up and help in raising the N100million ransom. He said: “The devastating news of the abduction of our Prelate, the Bishop of Owerri, and the Prelate’s Chaplain has left everybody in shock. “This is a period of trial in which the Church must cry out that ‘the Lord that answereth by Fire’ must be our God to destroy all the manipulations of the adversary. Let us all arise and cry out to the Lord! “As we engage in prayer warfare, this serves to notify you that the abductors have demanded a ransom of N100 million. “In view of the urgency and the dire need to arrest the situation for the safety of our prelate and other abductees, it has become imperative to seek your urgent response to raise the N100 million ransom. “The safety of the prelate and other abductees must be of paramount concern to all, and your contributions spiritually and monetarily shall not go unrewarded.”