* Seeks solution to insecurity, rampaging uncertainty to well-being of African children Udora Orizu The Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, on Monday said that Africa’s democracy is under threat, while the present insecurity and rampaging uncertainty across the continent represent the single biggest threat to the well-being of African children. Gbajabiamila stated this in Abuja, at the opening ceremony of the first Conference of Speakers and Heads of African Parliaments (COSAP), with the theme: ‘Strengthening Legislative Leadership for Africa’s Development’, organised to deliberate on the socio-political and economic progress in Africa and build a fairer world for all mankind. He lamented that despite Africa coming of age, the continent is far from achieving its highest potential. He said that leaders must invest in Africa’s young people, protecting them, ensuring their health and well-being and providing them with a solid education upon which to build their future. To deliver on this obligation, the Speaker said they must first ensure that the nations are at peace. Gbajabiamila therefore advised his African colleagues to wage the battle for peace with a warrior’s resolve, adding that everything depends on victory over the forces that threaten African children’s future. The Speaker said: “Across the continent, democracy is under threat and in retreat.  From Sudan to Mali, Guinea and Chad, elected governments have been usurped by military juntas, overturning years of progress and the hopes of millions.  Even in the places where elected governments are still in charge, public faith in the governing institutions is at an all-time low. “When citizens lose confidence that a democratic government can meet their expectations, democracy loses credibility and support and begins a death spiral. This is the reality in too many places across our continent. We live in a time fraught with potential and danger, and every governing decision we make and every action we take has the potential to substantially remake our world for good or ill. “This is, in effect, one of those defining historical moments.  And when, as is inevitable, history delivers its judgment, we will either be remembered for doing the hard and necessary things that make for progress and prosperity or be reviled for squandering the opportunity of a generation. “I believe that all of us are here because we recognise the historical significance of this moment and have determined to be on the right side of history’s judgment. Many reasons have been adduced to explain how we arrived at these dire circumstances. This conference will examine some of those reasons to understand what we need to do to correct them.” Speaking further, Gbajabiamila, while acknowledging the giant stride achieved by the continent during the scourge of the COVID-19 pandemic, maintained that the onus is on the parliament to set the terms of national development and ensure that government priorities reflect the citizens’ most pressing needs and highest aspirations. “The world has just now begun to recover from the tragedy of the COVID-19 pandemic.  For us in Africa, the pandemic exposed the dire conditions of our social infrastructure.  It brought into stark relief the massive effort required to ensure that we are better prepared for next time.  And there will be a next time. “As technology has hastened the flow of information and resources and facilitated travel and trade, it has also made it possible for previously unknown diseases, from the farthest reaches of the globe, to spread with speed and disastrous consequences, as we have just witnessed. “I am glad that despite predictions of disaster, Africa, for the most part, has managed this disease with evenness, and the actions of many governments across the continent worked to keep the worst outcomes from manifesting on our shores.  But there is a lot of work to do.  Much of that work will fall to parliaments across the continent.  As advocates and representatives of the people, it is our responsibility to set the terms of our national development and ensure that government priorities reflect our citizens’ most pressing needs and highest aspirations,” he added In his goodwill message, the Deputy Secretary General of the CommonwealthParliamentary Association, Jarvis Matiya, said the conference has given opportunity for African parliamentarians to speak with one voice on pertinent issues affecting the continent. While noting that Africa plays a very key role to promote democracy, he expressed optimism that some of the recommendations from the conference will be implemented ahead of their August gathering later in the year.