 Ogun East Senatorial District needs more people-oriented services from the government to improve their lives, says APC senatorial aspirant Segun Senbanjo. In a statement issued yesterday, Senbanjo addressed developmental issues faced by the Ogun East constituency and explained how he would tackle the challenges if given the opportunity to represent the people in the Senate. “These are my focal points for my constituency regarding quality representation at the Red Chamber,” said Senbanjo in the statement. Acknowledging the efforts of past and present senators in the zone, the aspiring senator pointed out that he would use a different and pragmatic approach to bring much-needed succour to the Ogun East constituents. “I will be offering something different compared to what past and present senators have offered my constituency regarding human resources development and capacity building of the downtrodden,” he said. Senbanjo also mentioned that he would strive to “improve my people’s social-economic well-being by creating employment and bringing foreign investments that would create businesses by establishing industries to boost the economic life welfare of my people in the Ogun East constituency.” Among other things, he promised to empower women and youths in education, including skills acquisition, encouraging and establishing SMEs. Senbanjo explained that he would have discussions with banks and the CBN to give the people loans at a low-interest rate to enable them to do business with ease, “thereby establishing various small-scale enterprises.” “I want to be a mediator with the people of my constituency to table their needs with the Ogun state government through Governor Dapo Abiodun to improve the roads network and drainage to eradicate flooding and improve electricity to aid small businesses,” said Senbanjo. He added, “While addressing the people of my constituency, I did tell them I don’t have to be elected to be in the Red Chamber to do all this I said I would do. Whether I’m elected or not, I’m actively involved in the welfare of my people. I’m discussing with foreign NGOs such as the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, Microsoft and others to bring their programs to the Ogun East constituency to improve the lives of my people within my constituency.”