 Where there is peace, there is steady progress, writes Okeke Chuka The Igbo have an adage that says, ‘when a road is good and safe, a traveller passes through it twice.  And the Holy Bible also says that ‘when the righteous is on the throne, the children of God prosper and rejoice’.  These two remarkable sayings aptly describe the good relationship that exists between the Igbo resident in Lagos and the Lagos State governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu.  As a good leader of his people, Sanwo-Olu has always demonstrated his love for all, an aura that has attracted many people to continue to lend support to his administration. Just a few days ago, the Igbo in Lagos came together with one voice, one accord and in one fell swoop to declare their unalloyed support for the governor’s bid to be re-elected the governor of the state.  This endorsement, coming when many people in the state least expected it, shows in all sense of the word, that Governor Sanwo-Olu is a true, honest and detribalized father to all.  The amalgamation of Igbo Traders that gave this public and tacit acclaim is an umbrella of 58 major markets in the state.  Often, this group has the mandate to act and speak on behalf of the Igbo wherever and whenever it is necessary or expedient. Most times, the Igbo speak and indeed act as a group. This particular endorsement has proved that Sanwo-Olu has been able to protect the Igbo in Lagos.  As against the situation in most parts of Nigeria today, Lagos State enjoys absolute and an unobstructed peace. This is so because a peace loving man is at the helm of affairs.  This goes to show how Igbo people have come to enjoy peace, togetherness and security to continue to thrive in their various endeavours. Having set the record straight and clear for the public to understand, Secretary-General of Ndigboamaka, Chinedu Ukatu on the day of the endorsement said to the governor: ‘Mr. Governor, you have not formally told us whether you are seeking re-election or not.  But I want to tell you that all the market leaders seated here today are yearning for a second term for you’.  What better way can anyone let his leader know that the road is safe for a second passage? The day this event took place at Amuwo-odofin, Lagos, the whole leaders and followers, of these various Igbo trade unions emptied themselves out into the arena. The crowd was massive. The euphoria was great, infused with a blend of frenzy and festive mood. Lagos practically came to a standstill. Governor Sanwo-Olu himself was astounded, imbued with profound fatherly affection towards his people. Amid this hilarious uproar of joy, Ukatu went on: ‘Mr. Governor, anytime you walk, we will walk with you.  I have been directed by all market leaders under the auspices of Ndigboamaka Progressive Markets Association in all the 58 dealer markets, to tell you that we have (today) endorsed you for a second term.  This is to show appreciation for your friendly policy and infrastructural projects initiated to help our businesses’. With this, the path was made clear. The unanimous declaration is a pointer to what Lagos State has become in the past four or five years where love rules. It is clear that most Igbo people in Lagos are happy to remain in this domain. Almost every one of them has one or good things to say about the state of affairs under the supervision of Sanwo-Olu. ‘Have you heard or experienced any lugubrious policy by Sanwo-Olu since he came to office? This was a question put to a group of Igbo at a drinking joint in Ijora by a fellow Igbo, a few months ago. As the others nodded their acclaim, the excitement on their faces knew no limit. So, from one end of Lagos to another, Igbo in different professional callings in the state keep thriving. Where there is peace, there is steady flow of progress.  This is a place where people still sleep with their two eyes closed. On the roads, at motor-parks; traders, hawkers, okada riders, all, smile contentedly, knowing that come what may, the governor will never enact or encourage any injurious or draconian law that will obliterate their smiles. To say the least, the times are tremendously good; the state keeps favouring the Igbo in all facets, in all spheres. On several occasions, Governor Sanwo-Olu has made it explicitly clear that he is elected to play the role of a father to all in the state.  So long as people conform to the laws of the land, the governor will continue to accommodate all. The governor equally accepted at a point that he has received tremendous support from everybody including the Igbo resident in the state. In other words, this symbiotic relationship has given room to a robust economy favourable to all and sundry. The governor’s economic policy is not sectional or discriminatory or ever targeted to suffocate any sect of people. Sanwo-Olu, inadvertently, has touched the people in all areas of life – transportation, education, health, housing and good governance.  Love is all it takes to achieve these and no doubt, the governor has this in great quantum. This wonderful state of affairs prompted the governor recently to declare, ‘Lagos will continue to remain in our view as the safest city.  We have grown the city from what it used to be three to four years ago before we took over.  Now Lagos receives the highest foreign direct investments because the environment is safe and secure. We have also provided the platform for the organized private sector to thrive. And so people have seen our sincerity and real dividends of democracy in all facets of life’. It is this manner of leadership diligence that Nigeria needs to build a comprehensive and nation-wide cohesion for a better Nigerian society. The Igbo/Yoruba unwritten peace accord and co-existence in Lagos is indeed a panacea for progress.  The example of Governor Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State remains a topic for researchers, for other governors nay leaders, to look into so as to establish an enduring legacy of peace, safety, security, economic growth and tolerance for a greater Nigeria. Chuka writes from Lagos