Society Watch  In the words of Harry Golden, “The only thing that overcomes hard luck is hard work.” No doubt, one of those who believe so much in this witty and philosophical saying is billionaire businesswoman, Bola Shagaya. Indeed, if you have a chance encounter with this notable oil magnate and philanthropist and you tell her she is lucky based on her current position, she will most probably shake her head vigorously and declare that it is all due to hard work. For all her years of hard work, providence has been merciful enough to her. Perhaps, this explains her rising profile and astounding success in all her endeavours. Her achievements have earned her a place among other top 10 notable and richest women across Africa such as Isabel Dos Santos, Folorunso Alakija, Ngina Kenyatta, Wendy Appelbaum, Wendy Ackerman, Irene Charnley and Bridget Radebe. Though she was born into an average-income family, she has tried to rewrite her story. She has sown in sweats, so it is not surprising that she is now reaping bountiful harvests. And today, she has nurtured her Bolmus Group to become a leading conglomerate now competing favourably with others across the globe. On many occasions, she has been given a kingly treat by some of the most powerful men and women in and outside the country. Not a few have described her as a citizen of the world. The Kwara State-born businesswoman is usually driven by an abiding quest to change the lives of her compatriots for the better. Shagaya, a member of Nigeria focused business group called National Economic Partnership for African Development (NEPAD), has been ruling the fashion and style scene for decades, and there seems to be no sign of her being eclipsed by the younger ones. Call her an ageless beauty, and you will be telling the truth.  This sexagenarian still commands respect in the social scene with her dress sense and you cannot but turn your head in admiration anytime she makes a public appearance.  Society Watch gathered that her trendy lifestyle and fashionable aura, among other sterling qualities, have placed her in the group of the most stylish women in Nigeria.