 Chiori is unarguably the biggest show promoter in Nigeria with records of show successes such as Olamide Live in Concert 2014-2016, Davido’s 30 BG Concert in 2017, Burna Boy Live in 2018 and a host of others. His company, Achievas Entertainment Limited is a fully registered, fast-growing entertainment company with interests in music, movies, sport and events. With a never ending rise of budding artistes in the industry Chiori from a rich experience of the show business sphere lends a voice on what’s best to do when starting, “Personally I always advise Artistes to push themselves to the point where they get discovered and instead of getting signed completely to a label they automatically become partners in such label. Instead of outright signing they collaborate due to what they are bringing to the table. This way they take the drivers seat. The way and manner the industry is structured and because of past experiences of Record labels most investors are not willing to sign any artiste as the betrayal of trust is at its peak right now.” Achievas Entertainment believes in giving new emerging artistes the opportunity to be heard in live concerts as it powered Buju’s Concert last year which happens to be his first in Lagos undoubtedly his performance was something extra ordinary as fans and critics attested to it. Speaking further on the major challenge in organizing events, he adds that, “We always beg sponsors to come on board but in other to scale that hurdle we do huge marketing so that the show must go on with or without sponsors. Event organisation and the technique behind it is the same everywhere in the world. From sound, light, production and more which is almost the same as the only difference is quality because standard is not cheap. We also achieve world class events in Africa and the best of the best set design you will get here in Africa. It is not about location it is about what quality of entertainment you wish to deliver to your guests.” Chiori has relentlessly given himself to the daily running of his Entertainment company for over 10 years. His act of service is immeasurable as he has contributed greatly to the successful careers of several artistes year in, year out as these shows give them the opportunity to connect to a larger audience and push their careers seamlessly. Speaking about the future he said, “Achievas Entertainment in the next 10 years will be a global player in the entertainment space to be reckoned with. My business philosophy has always been no negatives. Always believe it can be done and I have a positive mindset and I approach all my projects with same mentality. I always say Never give up, Don’t settle for less, Know your worth and always be ready to learn and be willing to sacrifice your time even when the out come is unknownAttachments area